Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose one answer which best describes your education and/or experience. Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in or related to budget/financial management. I have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in or related to budget/financial management. I have 1 year specialized experience at or at least equivalent to GS-09 level as described in the job opportunity announcement. I have an LL.M. in or related to budget/financial management. I have a combination of successfully completed graduate level education beyond the second year of graduate study and specialized experience in or related to budget/financial management that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following statements describe your experience as it relates to financial management responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided procedural guidance concerning the format of submission of annual estimates of funding needs. I have calculated the effects of pay raise adjustments and inflation on program budgets. I have analyzed financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. I have reviewed, edited and consolidated annual and multi-year budget estimates for assigned organizations/programs into a single budget request. I have prepared/edited narrative justifications and projected funding needs, ensuring that data in request is formally and accurately documented in a variety of unrelated forms/schedules/reports. I have monitored the execution of a budget with different sources and types of funding such as direct multi-year appropriations, trust funds transfers of funds from other agencies, reimbursements for services performed and other generated revenue. I have monitored obligations and expenditures of funds to ensure they are executed properly and timely. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 4 Which of the following budget execution tasks do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have helped perform cost benefit tradeoffs. I have assisted in developing budget requests and related supporting documentation. I have estimated funding needs. I have verified that obligations and expenditures are within amounts available. I have evaluated requests for funding. I have compiled fiscal data in spreadsheets. I have track program expenses against plan and identify causes of differences between actual and plan. I have assessed the impact of changes in programs and regulations on salaries, travel, benefits, overtime, and related expenses for a program. I have developed a household budget and use it to manage my personal finances. I have developed a budget for a club or similar organization which includes fund to cover operating expenses. I have helped perform cost benefit tradeoffs. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to apply financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience applying financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience applying financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 6 Which of the following statements best describes the environment that provided you with the highest level of experience preparing, justifying, and presenting an organizational budget? Answer to this question is required Educational environment Cultural environment Corporate environment Small sized profit/non-profit environment Local level State level Federal level None of the above 7 Which of the following describes your experience coordinating budget preparations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed solutions to budget formulation, justification, and presentation problems for my organization/office/bureau. I have recommended budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification or execution for my assigned program areas. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 8 Which statements reflect your experience performing administrative tasks in support of the budget process (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of budget principles, practices, and processes through on-the-job and/or classroom training. I obtain, compile, and summarize narrative information and quantitative budget data. I verify the costs of line items in the budget and enter the costs in standard forms and schedules. I extract budget and program data from computer printouts of accounting records, forms, and reports for use by co-workers. I track the results of budget deliberations in OMB and in Congress. I understand and apply congressional reprogramming requirements. I have worked with the Federal budget request process and time lines. I have worked with the Trust budget request process and time lines. I assist in writing appeals or inputs to appeals of OMB or Congressional reductions. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to discern trends in spending and differences in costs. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to anticipate needs for funds or reprogramming actions. I review, verify and analyze submitted data for consistency with financial and program objectives and adherence to instructions. I help prepare schedules, graphs, and tables included in budget submissions. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience applying principles and techniques of program and budget analysis in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals? Answer to this question is required I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals. I have had education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 In which of the following environments do you have experience preparing, justifying, and presenting a complex budget? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Educational environment Cultural environment Corporate environment Large profit/non-profit environment Local level State level Federal level None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your experience developing annual operating budgets based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs. I have had education or training in developing annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following types of written correspondence, reports or other documents do you have experience writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Issue papers or summary reports on organizational data which includes analysis and recommendations. Position papers on controversial issues Policy statements and guidance Procedural guidance Report findings on studies Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems Recommendations for solutions to policy problems Organizational assessments Product/Process evaluation assessments None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated financial reporting systems (e.g. Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Farsight)? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating budget preparations and/or financial reports? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed, advised, and recommend solutions to budget/ financial problems for my organization/office/bureau. I have recommended and justified necessary budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have prepared summary analysis of appropriate funds requests and have recommend priority uses of limited funds. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification and execution for the agency. I have reviewed, analyzed, and interpret legislation appropriations language, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directives, Treasury department guidelines, and Congressional and Presidential directives pertaining to the agency budgetary requirements. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 15 Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with senior executives, budge officers, or other officials as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicate with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate or resolve controversial policy or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate or persuade individuals or groups,including those skeptical or in disagreement I have participated in discussions as a program representative or in order to plan, coordinate or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above 16 Which of the following describe your experience communicating orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed briefings that were used to justify budgets, programs or strategies. I have contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information regarding budgetary matters. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated budgetary information to internal audiences. I have taught less experienced personnel. I have pre-briefed senior staff in preparation for decision meetings on programs under my purview. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience working in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I have worked alone and believe my ability to maintain a clear focus on the work at hand permitted me to achieve consistently excellent results. I have worked in small, close-knit groups having common interests and goals, contributed to the accomplishments of assigned tasks. I have worked in large, complex groups where my facilitation skills contributed directly to successful completion of assigned tasks. I have led small, close-knit groups, where I ensure that everyone in the group was doing his/her fair share of the work, thereby contributing to successful completion of assigned tasks. I have led large, complex groups where my management skills ensure that the work was coordinated sufficiently well to ensure successful and timely completion of assigned tasks. None of the above Grade: 12 1 Choose one answer which best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 11. Examples of experience may include independently performing budget administration duties requiring complex review and analysis; preparing analyses/justification of requests for funds; monitoring and tracking obligations and expenditures throughout the execution phase of the annual budget cycle; consolidating/reviewing/analyzing budget requests. I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following statements describe your experience as it relates to financial management responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided procedural guidance concerning the format of submission of annual estimates of funding needs. I have calculated the effects of pay raise adjustments and inflation on program budgets. I have analyzed financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and/or budgetary actions. I have reviewed, edited and consolidated annual and multi-year budget estimates for assigned organizations/programs into a single budget request. I have prepared/edited narrative justifications and projected funding needs, ensuring that data in request is formally and accurately documented in a variety of unrelated forms/schedules/reports. I have monitored the execution of a budget with different sources and types of funding such as direct multi-year appropriations, trust funds transfers of funds from other agencies, reimbursements for services performed and other generated revenue. I have monitored obligations and expenditures of funds to ensure they are executed properly and timely. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 4 Which of the following budget execution tasks do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have helped perform cost benefit tradeoffs. I have assisted in developing budget requests and related supporting documentation. I have estimated funding needs. I have verified that obligations and expenditures are within amounts available. I have evaluated requests for funding. I have compiled fiscal data in spreadsheets. I have track program expenses against plan and identify causes of differences between actual and plan. I have assessed the impact of changes in programs and regulations on salaries, travel, benefits, overtime, and related expenses for a program. I have developed a household budget and use it to manage my personal finances. I have developed a budget for a club or similar organization which includes fund to cover operating expenses. I have helped perform cost benefit tradeoffs. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to apply financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience applying financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience applying financial management procedures to resolve financial issues with fund balances as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 6 Which of the following statements best describes the environment that provided you with the highest level of experience preparing, justifying, and presenting an organizational budget? Answer to this question is required Educational environment Cultural environment Corporate environment Small sized profit/non-profit environment Local level State level Federal level None of the above 7 Which of the following describes your experience coordinating budget preparations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed solutions to budget formulation, justification, and presentation problems for my organization/office/bureau. I have recommended budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification or execution for my assigned program areas. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 8 Which statements reflect your experience performing administrative tasks in support of the budget process (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of budget principles, practices, and processes through on-the-job and/or classroom training. I obtain, compile, and summarize narrative information and quantitative budget data. I verify the costs of line items in the budget and enter the costs in standard forms and schedules. I extract budget and program data from computer printouts of accounting records, forms, and reports for use by co-workers. I track the results of budget deliberations in OMB and in Congress. I understand and apply congressional reprogramming requirements. I have worked with the Federal budget request process and time lines. I have worked with the Trust budget request process and time lines. I assist in writing appeals or inputs to appeals of OMB or Congressional reductions. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to discern trends in spending and differences in costs. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to anticipate needs for funds or reprogramming actions. I review, verify and analyze submitted data for consistency with financial and program objectives and adherence to instructions. I help prepare schedules, graphs, and tables included in budget submissions. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience applying principles and techniques of program and budget analysis in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals? Answer to this question is required I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals. I have had education or training in applying principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have applied principles and techniques of program and budget analyses in the evaluation of programs associated with mission goals as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 10 In which of the following environments do you have experience preparing, justifying, and presenting a complex budget? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Educational environment Cultural environment Corporate environment Large profit/non-profit environment Local level State level Federal level None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your experience developing annual operating budgets based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs. I have had education or training in developing annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following types of written correspondence, reports or other documents do you have experience writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Issue papers or summary reports on organizational data which includes analysis and recommendations. Position papers on controversial issues Policy statements and guidance Procedural guidance Report findings on studies Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems Recommendations for solutions to policy problems Organizational assessments Product/Process evaluation assessments None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated financial reporting systems (e.g. Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Farsight)? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating budget preparations and/or financial reports? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed, advised, and recommend solutions to budget/ financial problems for my organization/office/bureau. I have recommended and justified necessary budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have prepared summary analysis of appropriate funds requests and have recommend priority uses of limited funds. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification and execution for the agency. I have reviewed, analyzed, and interpret legislation appropriations language, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) directives, Treasury department guidelines, and Congressional and Presidential directives pertaining to the agency budgetary requirements. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 15 Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with senior executives, budge officers, or other officials as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicate with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate or resolve controversial policy or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate or persuade individuals or groups,including those skeptical or in disagreement I have participated in discussions as a program representative or in order to plan, coordinate or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above 16 Which of the following describe your experience communicating orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed briefings that were used to justify budgets, programs or strategies. I have contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information regarding budgetary matters. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated budgetary information to internal audiences. I have taught less experienced personnel. I have pre-briefed senior staff in preparation for decision meetings on programs under my purview. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 17 Which of the following best describes your experience working in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I have worked alone and believe my ability to maintain a clear focus on the work at hand permitted me to achieve consistently excellent results. I have worked in small, close-knit groups having common interests and goals, contributed to the accomplishments of assigned tasks. I have worked in large, complex groups where my facilitation skills contributed directly to successful completion of assigned tasks. I have led small, close-knit groups, where I ensure that everyone in the group was doing his/her fair share of the work, thereby contributing to successful completion of assigned tasks. I have led large, complex groups where my management skills ensure that the work was coordinated sufficiently well to ensure successful and timely completion of assigned tasks. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.