Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following reflects your experience overseeing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (i.e., statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc.). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving in the capacity as an organization/museum’s Primary Procurement Officer. I have experience coordinating with a Contracting Office to ensure new procedures rules are enforced. I have experience reviewing all approval requests before submission to a Contracting Office. I have experience providing procurement briefing to a finance and administrative support team. I have experience directing administrative staff to attend procurement training and refresher classes. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience providing technical assistance to program staff in identifying appropriate contract mechanisms, preparing pre-award procurement documents, and post-award contract monitoring for the purpose of contract management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 6 What is your experience in overseeing a Federal procurement program, including travel, purchase cards, accountable property, and purchasing of goods and services? Answer to this question is required I have experience in overall management, coordination and process of procurement and contract activities for a large organization; has delegated procurement authority of $50,000 or more. I have experience that demonstrates substantial knowledge of procurement and contract activities for an organization; has delegated procurement authority of $25,000 or more. I have a good working knowledge of procurement or contract through involvement in one or more specialized functions associated directly with the contract processes; has delegated procurement authority of $10,000 or more. I have no experience overseeing a Federal procurement program. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience developing training materials on use of an automated travel management system? Answer to this question is required I have updated existing training materials based on changes to travel regulations, policy or procedures. I have independently developed training materials on use of an automated travel management system. I have assisted others in developing training materials on use of an automated travel management system. I don’t have any experience related to this competency. 8 Which of the following activities related to travel management have you performed? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed or approved travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated travel system for international travel. I have reviewed or approved travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated system for domestic travel. I have reviewed or approved travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated travel system for my organization. I have reviewed or approved travel authorizations and vouchers in an automated travel system for one department in my organization. I have not performed any of the above functions. 9 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience managing and leading a project team? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams to accomplish a common goal. I have experience working as a member of a team. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned a formal leadership responsibility. I have overseen the work of others assigned to me to complete a specific project or task. I have experience leading teams that require solving complex problems, building cohesiveness among members, and effectively completing deliverables. I have held a team leader position over a group of employees or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have held a full-time supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of subordinates. 10 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated the performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-the-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 11 Which of the following describes your experience serving as the approving official for procurement, travel, purchase cards, and other administrative and management functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance and instructions on the proper steps to be followed when procuring goods and services and reviewing purchase orders and contracts to ensure that they comply with federal regulations. I have authorized the expenditure of funds via government purchase cards and ensured that such expenditures meet federal guidelines. I have reviewed travel requests to ensure that they are in accordance with federal travel regulations. I have provided guidance and assistance to travelers and administrative staff in preparing travel authorizations, field advances, and submitting travel vouchers. I have ensured that funds are available, travel is mission essential, and supervisory approvals have been given before approving travel authorizations. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience applying, interpreting, or developing policies and procedures related to procurement, contracting, and accountable property management? Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing and applying policies, regulations, and procedures related to procurement, contracting, and accountable property activities, and recommending process improvements. I have experience analyzing and applying policies, regulations, and procedures related to procurement, contracting, and accountable property activities, and have assisted in developing, implementing, or updating organizational policies and procedures. I have experience analyzing and interpreting policies, regulations and procedures related to procurement and contracting activities and have independently developed organizational policies and procedures. None of the above. 13 Which of the following describes your experience with travel policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing and applying travel policies, regulations, and procedures and recommending process improvements. I have experience analyzing and interpreting travel policies, regulations and procedures and have assisted in developing new or updating existing policies and procedures for an organization. I have experience analyzing and interpreting travel policies, regulations and procedures and have developed new policies and procedures for an organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.