Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that BEST describes your level of experience in evaluating and monitoring travel management program costs. Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. 4 Which of the following activities have you performed in support of travel management activities? Answer to this question is required Stayed abreast of changes to automated travel applications, e.g. Travel Manager. Reviewed changes to travel policies or regulations for their impact on travel operations. Maintained / updated travel databases tracking traveler information, budgets, and allotments. Resolved financial issues with appropriate officials. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 6 From the following list, select the software applications or systems in which you are proficient: Answer to this question is required Word Processing (e.g., Word) Spreadsheet applications (e.g., Excel) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Microsoft Outlook Financial management applications or systems Travel management applications or systems (e.g., Travel Manager, FedTrip) Microsoft Access Internet Browsers Statistical or quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Database management Desktop publishing software None of the above 7 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience using E2 Solutions as a travel tool for the authorization of travel orders, budget tracking, and program milestones? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 8 Select the responses that BEST describe your experience in training others on general travel processes and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have trained others on preparing domestic and international travel authorizations. I have trained others on preparing domestic and international travel vouchers. I have developed briefing materials for domestic and international travel. I have advised others on procedures and practices affecting the travel program. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Please select the response that BEST describes your level of experience in evaluating and monitoring travel management program costs. Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. 4 Which of the following activities have you performed in support of travel management activities? Answer to this question is required Stayed abreast of changes to automated travel applications, e.g. Travel Manager. Reviewed changes to travel policies or regulations for their impact on travel operations. Maintained / updated travel databases tracking traveler information, budgets, and allotments. Resolved financial issues with appropriate officials. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 6 From the following list, select the software applications or systems in which you are proficient: Answer to this question is required Word Processing (e.g., Word) Spreadsheet applications (e.g., Excel) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Microsoft Outlook Financial management applications or systems Travel management applications or systems (e.g., Travel Manager, FedTrip) Microsoft Access Internet Browsers Statistical or quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools Database management Desktop publishing software None of the above 7 Which of the following statements BEST reflects your experience using E2 Solutions as a travel tool for the authorization of travel orders, budget tracking, and program milestones? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior co-worker. I have instructed other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 8 Select the responses that BEST describe your experience in training others on general travel processes and procedures. Answer to this question is required I have trained others on preparing domestic and international travel authorizations. I have trained others on preparing domestic and international travel vouchers. I have developed briefing materials for domestic and international travel. I have advised others on procedures and practices affecting the travel program. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.