Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The National Employee Support Programs Administrator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp;He/she consults with counterparts in other law enforcement agencies to exchange best practices.&nbsp;The National Employee Support Programs Administrator represents the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) in day-to-day dealings with outside agencies, with other Bureau Branches, facilities and staff regarding employee&nbsp;work-life programs, such as the national Employee Assistance Program (EAP), national Correctional Support Teams (CST) Program and the national Veterans Support Program. He/she must have expert level skills in oral communications sufficient to develop and deliver briefings and presentations to others.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided formal training on an issue related to employee support in corrections at a national training event; and/or I have given briefings to upper management on sensitive issues related to employee support in corrections; and/or I have given presentations on national programs related to employee support in corrections inside and outside the agency/organization and responded to questions; and/or I have developed a presentation on employee support for institution staff in corrections on topics related to employee wellness (i.e., Employee Assistance Program (EAP), Correctional Support Teams (CST) or Veterans Support Program). I have conveyed changes in policy regarding the needs of employee work-life programs to agency/organization officials; and/or I have coordinated work conferences on employee support at the national level; and/or I have given briefings to upper management on sensitive issues related to employee support; and/or I have given presentations on national programs related to employee support inside the agency/organization. I have collaborated with providers regarding employee work-life programs; and/or I have as a member of a team, provided training on an issue related to employee support; and/or I have summarized information to others on issues related to employee support; and/or I have co-facilitated a presentation on employee wellness. None of the above. 4 The National Employee Support Programs Administrator produces written reports/information from technical assistance reviews and employee support visits to the Director, and upon request, to members of Congress.&nbsp;He/she responds to Congressional inquiries regarding employee suicides, employee wellness, and specific work-life programs in the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).&nbsp;The National Employee Support Programs Administrator must possess expert level skills in written communication sufficient to develop briefings, presentations, reports and position papers, for all levels of audiences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a formal response on all findings from an audit conducted on employee support in corrections; and/or I have authored materials focused on employee support or employee wellness in corrections; and/or I have independently written and implemented a proposal for addressing the needs of employees in corrections; and/or I have collected and reported data related to employee support in corrections; and/or I have prepared briefings for individuals external to the agency on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact on employee support and employee wellness in corrections. I have based on results from an audit, developed or implemented corrective actions on issues related to employee support; and/or I have created educational materials on issues related to employee support; and/or I have prepared written responses to staff inquiries on issues related to employee support. I have authored a section of an article which was published in a publication related to employee support or employee wellness; and/or I have prepared a formal response on findings from an audit conducted on employee support; and/or I have assisted in the development and implementation of a proposal for addressing the needs of employees; and/or I have collected and reported data related to employee support; and/or I have prepared briefings for individuals in an agency on issues related to employee support or employee wellness. None of the above. 5 The National Employee Support Programs Administrator administers personnel matters and deals effectively with subordinates regarding concerns. He/she assigns, directs and reviews the work of his/her subordinates. The National Employee Support Programs Administrator evaluates work performance, identifies training needs, recommends awards, as well as disciplinary actions.&nbsp;He/she is responsible for planning, scheduling and coordinating the work of the unit, giving advice to subordinates, and determining the material, equipment, and facilities needed for staff to perform the work.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured available resources and supplies were appropriately utilized for employee support; and/or I have met with subordinate employees to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have advised subordinate employees of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level; and/or I have mentored a subordinate through a formal Mentoring Program; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by a subordinate workforce. I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using established program directives; and/or I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or to increase morale; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed a Mentoring Program for an agency/organization; and/or I have developed and implemented a cross training program for employees in the department/section. I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of the division/office/unit; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards for subordinates. None of the above. 6 The National Employee Support Programs Administrator is an expert advisor, and consultant, regarding work-life programs, such as the national Employee Assistance Program (EAP), national Correctional Support Teams (CST) Program and the national Veterans Support Program. He/she provides sound technical advice to Bureau of Prisons (BOP) staff and management officials on the implementation of these programs.&nbsp;The National Employee Support Programs Administrator provides technical expertise and leadership in the development of employee support initiatives to serve the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) workforce.&nbsp;He/she must have&nbsp;comprehensive knowledge of the range of administrative laws,&nbsp;policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to employee&nbsp;engagement activities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others in providing information on various employee support services available to an organization; and/or I have participated, formally or informally, in initiatives to address employee support; and/or I have obtained and shared information on issues relating to employee support. I have implemented policy directives related to employee support; and/or I have participated in efforts focused on employee support initiatives; and/or I have distributed information available for employee support initiatives. I have administered an employee support program for a law enforcement agency; and/or I have coordinated the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at a correctional institution; and/or I have provided technical information on employee support services to local leadership; and/or I have independently sought out external resources to address employee support needs. None of the above. 7 The National Employee Support Programs Administrator assists with the developing, supporting and implementing of trainings for various work-life programs at the national, regional and institution levels.&nbsp;He/she is responsible for assessing and&nbsp;establishing the training needs of agency leadership to&nbsp;determine and develop appropriate curricula to promote an agency&nbsp;culture supportive of employee resilience and wellness.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with high ranking officials internal to the organization to brief executive staff/upper management on employee support topics; and/or I have assisted with facilitating a local training on employee support; and/or I have provided training to coworkers on a topic related to employee support; and/or I have provided coworkers with constructive feedback and coached others on how to perform department tasks; and/or I have demonstrated familiarity with current training practices in the public and private sector around employee support. I have facilitated meetings and presented briefings/trainings/presentations for a specific employee support initiative which was utilized at the national level of an agency/organization; and/or I have identified training needs for employee support and facilitated training on employee support; and/or I have recruited new employees and provided guidance and mentorship as a part of an employee support initiative; and/or I have provided constructive feedback and coached others on how to provide employee support; and/or I have coached and mentored others through a formal Mentoring Program on employee support; and/or I have identified ways that training could assist in solving problems around employee support; and/or I have conducted analysis of employee support training strategies and methodologies used in agency training programs. I have assisted with facilitating national training on employee support; and/or I have identified employee support training needs and developed local training on employee support; and/or I have advised others of available training that would enhance their job knowledge around employee support; and/or I have revised employee support training strategies as needed; and/or I have conducted and participated in meetings by providing employee support presentations for internal and external participants. None of the above. 8 The National Employee Support Programs Administrator encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust and group identity for the Employee Wellness Branch and with others within the Bureau of Prisons at regional and institution levels.&nbsp;He/she fosters commitment and teamwork in order to facilitate program goal achievements for various programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified strategies and developed plans that addressed employee support needs; and/or I have facilitated meetings focused on improving employee support; and/or I have fostered cooperation with subordinates to improve employee support. I have worked with employees at varying levels to improve employee support; and/or I have facilitated an employee support event among coworkers; and/or I have provided general feedback to peers on ongoing project(s); and/or I have as part of a team, conducted a presentation during a Community Relations Board (CRB) meeting discussing various programs available pertaining to employee wellness. I have as the leader of a department or team, resolved conflicting priorities to achieve employee support program goals; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of employee support projects or initiatives; and/or I have fostered cooperation with Supervisors from other departments to achieve employee support program goals. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).