Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Toggle navigation About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-9 level as described below. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I possess 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 &nbsp;Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Degree: geology, plus 20 additional semester hours in any combination of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum engineering, computer science, planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, and cartography. Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not possess the education and/or experience as mentioned above. Specialized experience is defined as experience performing geologic adequacy or suitability analyses of underground formations or storage of natural gas or oil.&nbsp; 3 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 How did you first learn about this vacancy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required A job search platform (not USAJobs) 1.1 Which platform?&nbsp; Handshake Indeed Glassdoor LinkedIn Other Referral from a FERC employee 1.1 What is the name of the employee?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. University or Professional Career Fair 1.1 What was the name of the University or Sponsored event?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. FERC Careers on Social Media 1.1 Which social media page?&nbsp; LinkedIn X (Formerly Twitter) Facebook Instagram FERC Website (www.ferc.gov) Email from a FERC Recruiter USAJobs search Other 1.1 Based on your selection please provide more details.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you visited FERC career social media platforms (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If yes, select the pages visited: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn No 3 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 11 Which tools have you used to assist with analysis of geologic formations, such as depleted natural gas and / or oil reserves and salt domes?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Sonar data United States Geological Survey (USGS) maps Well data Well logs None of the above 12 Select the type(s) of analyses you have performed.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Analysis of storage of natural gas in aquifers. Analysis of storage of oil in aquifers. Analysis of storage of natural gas in underground reservoirs. Analysis of storage of oil in underground reservoirs. None of the above. 13 Select the type(s) of modeling software you have experience using.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Geotechnical Fluid flows Fluid dynamics None of the above 14 What types of information do you have experience presenting orally?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Technical information Non-technical information Results of assessments and investigations Recommendations I do not have this experience. 15 Select the responses that describe your experience(s) related to oral communication.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to instruct or lead. I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to persuade / negotiate. I have conducted informal training to others on an individual basis. I have conducted informal training to groups I do not have this experience. 16 Select the responses(s) that describe(s) the audiences to which you&rsquo;ve independently presented geology related information.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Colleagues Supervisors External Parties I do not have this experience. 17 Select the ways in which you have contributed to the production of written products.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided first drafts to others for their review. I have reviewed and provided general comments to others' draft. I have reviewed and provided grammar, spelling, and organization edit to others' drafts. I have reviewed documents specifically for technical accuracy. I have consolidated reports or materials from others into a final product. I have been responsible for written products from start to finish. I do not have this experience. 18 Choose the response(s) that describe(s) your experience preparing information.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating multidisciplinary teams that have prepared engineering studies, or interstate natural gas applications, or field studies related to applications for natural gas certificates. I have experience serving as a member of a multidisciplinary team that have prepared engineering studies, interstate natural gas applications, or field studies related to applications for natural gas certificates. I have experience preparing geological studies or field studies related to applications for natural gas certificates. I have experience preparing geological studies or field studies. I do not have this experience. 19 Which statements describe the type of writing experience you have?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Writing to explain a complicated issue. Writing to influence the opinion or action of others. Writing to recommend a solution to a problem. Writing to summarize the results of research or a project. I do not have experience writing for any of the above purposes. View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).