Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Program Specialist interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and give or receive advice and guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations related to the overall drug testing program for the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have maintained appropriate and highly professional relationship with staff/inmates; and/or I have contacted JCAHO in order to clarify information for medical facility; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have directed inquiries requiring in-depth information to the appropriate staff. I have provided technical information during a budget meeting; and/or I have assisted American Correctional Association (ACA) medical coordinator; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding a special project; and/or I have provided feedback at a workforce utilization meeting. I have provided interpretation of highly technical policies and/or procedures to staff; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within specific area; and/or I have facilitated technical training to staff at all levels; and/or I have provided information to an administrator that assisted them with his/her program area; and/or I have interacted with BOP managers while involved in a project; and/or I have coordinated meetings of the Utilization Management Committee; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have exchanged technical data and information with various members of the agency, which included employees from the institution, region and the Central Office. None of the above. 3 The Program Specialist communicates in writing with staff at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, charts, etc., to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. Correspondence will vary from internal departmental documents up to and including assisting in the preparation of reports to outside entities, (i.e., OIG, Congress, and the White House). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have worked with Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) to develop statement of work for project/service within the department; and/or I have conducted surveys and provided written recommendations to appropriate manager(s). I have developed meeting agenda, training session materials and participant handouts; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have edited/corrected/suggested revisions for incoming technical documents to be forwarded to Executive Staff; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements and/or technical guidelines for staff within the department. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. None of the above. 4 The Program Specialist must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including GroupWise, Microsoft software, Drug Free Workplace Program (DFWP) data management systems, to be able to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data and, provide information for interpretations. He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered information into already established databases for medical, surgical psychiatric; and/or I have entered and retrieved data using Microsoft Word; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have researched and retrieved information from Sallyport; and/or I have manipulated information and data for use in data processing. I have maintained and entered information into databases for medical, surgical and psychiatric admissions for tracking/trending purposes; and/or I have provided basic software technical support for PC users and associated equipment; and/or I have trained management/line staff to use computer programs (i.e., grammar checking, outlining systems, idea processors, project management, decision modeling programs); and/or I have developed and/or assisted with development of highly detailed and technical presentations for superiors, using a variety of software, in order for them to make presentations for meetings, conferences or task/work groups; and/or I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters using Microsoft Office by entering data and running reports; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information. I have developed and utilized information databases for medical, surgical and psychiatric admissions for tracking requirements and trending purposes to identify most effective utilization of resources; and/or I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system/spreadsheet; and/or I have provided advanced software technical support to users of personal computers and associated equipment and utilized a variety of computer programs; and/or I have utilized a wide variety of hardware and software; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency specific data base to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments; and/or I have programmed/set parameters to software application programs; and/or I have entered or retrieved data from a server or personal computer to formulate graphs/spreadsheets. None of the above. 5 The Program Specialist collects, analyzes, and interprets information such as medical trending data (i.e., rates of diabetes, HIV, TB, etc.), retention data for staff, etc. He/she plans, develops and conducts internal review studies on activities and organizations of certain limited capacity. He/she use the studies to assess program compliance and develop improved techniques to meet organizational goals determined by supervisor. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected, maintained and provided data for physicians concerning appropriateness of housing, admission review and length of stay, based on review of patient status/diagnosis, current treatments and community standards; and/or I have assisted departments in developing/adapting guidelines for producing quality care in most cost effective manner; and/or I have created spreadsheets using basic formulas on a single worksheet; and/or I have analyzed travel costs, supply charges from medical departments to determine budget requirements for the next fiscal year; and/or I have ran reports from pre-established programs; and/or I have tracked and reported cost information within branch. I have led a quality management team; and/or I have promoted appropriate quality patient care services; and/or I have extracted and input complex data from a spreadsheet; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted complex travel regulations for subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have distributed operating funds to cost center(s) within sections; and/or I have created various computer spreadsheets using formulas and multiple worksheets in Microsoft Excel or another type of spreadsheet; and/or I have reconciled fund control and reported discrepancies. I have coordinated a urinalysis Drug Free Workplace quality management team; and/or I have advised Cost Center Manager(s) of all cost center monies and expenditures; and/or I have coordinated with senior level staff regarding memorandums, policy procedure changes; and/or I have analyzed financial data at year-end to ensure proper classification of accruals and reported to cost center manager; and/or I have coordinated and managed the utilization management program by assisting in the planning, organization and evaluation of health care in a cost-effective manner. None of the above. 6 The Program Specialist must be able to utilize time and resources in order to devise plans, procedures or methods to carry out the work assignments related to the clerical and administrative functions of the Drug Free Workplace Program. He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgement, time planning and resource management within the program. He/she must have an understanding of critical projects and the order and due dates which these projects will require completion. He/she must understand the significance, scope and effect of all phases of work performed and reviewed. He/she will be responsible for both scheduled and unscheduled collection of urinalysis samples, requiring flexibility and time management skills. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained logging system for all work categories in office; and/or I have reviewed work of incoming reports, Congressional correspondence, etc., to ensure completeness, accuracy, correct grammar and spelling; and/or I have assisted/made suggestions in order to assist less experienced staff in meeting time lines and due dates; and/or I have maintained calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to/before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code or accounting code, etc.); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers; and/or I have organized compressed work schedule request for immediate department; and/or I have assisted co-worker with projects assigned by management in order to meet specific deadlines; and/or I have requested training for self and co-workers based upon identifying the training needs within the department; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have provided assistance/guidance with work/project, if necessary, prior to due date. I have coordinated work as a team leader; and/or I have re-evaluated priorities of projects based on shifting time lines; and/or I have coordinated numerous work assignments ahead of due date; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection system and trained co-workers on the system; and/or I have used judgement in determining priorities of work assignments based on knowledge of operations/functions; and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents (i.e., sensitive controlled, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, Privacy Act, congressional correspondence, reports, etc.); and/or I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).