Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 GS-15: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-15: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 2 From the list below, identify all of the type(s) of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings None of the above 3 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents under direct supervision. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents independently. I have experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents and have written policy for this process. I have managed and supervised a team that worked on government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following areas: hiring, rewarding, disciplining, resolving conflict, work scheduling, evaluating performance, and career development. I have been a project leader but not a supervisor. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST describes your background coordinating, formulating and implementing cybersecurity policy? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in coordinating, formulating or implementing cybersecurity policy. I have education or training in coordinating, formulating and implementing cybersecurity policy, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely coordinated, formulated and implemented cybersecurity policy as a regular part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently coordinated, formulated and implemented cybersecurity policy as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in coordinating, formulating and implementing cybersecurity policy, having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Expert knowledge and demonstrated ability in designing, implementing, and overseeing cyber security policies in a large, complex, global organization, and have experience in the development and implementation of significant improvements and reforms in cybersecurity policies, performance, compliance, oversight and response to global information technology (IT) risk. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Significant experience advising U.S. government agencies and foreign governments on the design and implementation of information security solutions and managed a broad range of cybersecurity programs and services that involve the execution of critical security laws, policies, safeguards, and best practices related to cyber security. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I have the expert knowledge and the ability to deliver an enterprise-wide authoritative Enterprise Architecture (EA) program. I have experience providing direction and management oversight for highly technical engineers and architects associated with enterprise-wide IT modernization initiatives that include emerging and innovative technologies, complex and integrated cybersecurity solutions, data standardization and protection, and multi-platform hybrid cloud computing technologies. I have the expert ability to apply this knowledge and leadership to guide core management systems toward greater integration and interoperability that will enhance their effectiveness and meet business and mission information and processing requirements. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I have demonstrated experience and ability to provide technical guidance and oversight for the design, development, security, capacity planning, and engineering of the Department’s enterprise networks. I have expert knowledge of the configuration management, monitoring, troubleshooting and proactive management of the Department's networks and systems assets while being fully cognizant of cybersecurity issues, attack methodologies and preventative measures. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you have experience applying the principles and methodologies for cybersecurity architecture, data architecture, and system security engineering? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Please indicate all the areas that you have experience related to Cyber Security operational tasks: Answer to this question is required Physical and Logical Network Segmentation Multi-Factor Authentication Network Configuration & Monitoring (signature & heuristics based) Zero Client Architectures Cloud Computing Security Security Operations Center design and management Mobile Device Security Dynamic System Defenses Data-At-Rest & Data-In Transit Protections Data Centric Security Micro Hypervisor Technologies Applications Whitelisting None of the above 12 Please indicate all the areas that you have experience related to Cyber Security operational tasks: Answer to this question is required Physical and Logical Network Segmentation Multi-Factor Authentication Network Configuration & Monitoring (signature & heuristics based) Zero Client Architectures Cloud Computing Security Security Operations Center design and management Mobile Device Security Dynamic System Defenses Data-At-Rest & Data-In Transit Protections Data Centric Security Micro Hypervisor Technologies Applications Whitelisting None of the above 13 I have the demonstrated experience and ability to coordinate and negotiate enterprise architecture, cybersecurity, data protection and multi-platform hybrid cloud computing technologies with affected entities inside and outside the organization. I have the ability to apply this experience in directing the development of unified technology strategies that are in alignment with the organization's business requirements. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following BEST matches your experience supervising technical experts and other employees to accomplish program goals? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 What is the largest number of direct report employees that you have supervised? Answer to this question is required I have no experience supervising others. I have supervised 1 to 5 employees. I have supervised 6 to 10 employees. I have supervised 11 to 15 employees. I have supervised more than 15 employees. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.