Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed an Undergraduate or Graduate Education: Major study -- safety or occupational health fields (safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene), or degree in other related fields that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours of study from among the following (or closely related) disciplines: safety, occupational health, industrial hygiene, occupational medicine, toxicology, public health, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, engineering, and industrial psychology. Note: Transcripts required at time of application. I have specialized experience related to safety and occupational health that provided me the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience is listed in the qualification section of the vacancy. I have Certification in a Certified Safety Professional (CSP), Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH), or Certified Health Physicist (CHP), or similar certification that included successful completion of a written examination meets the requirements for GS-5. Applicants may also qualify for higher grade levels based on their education and/or experience. Note: Copy of Certificate is required. I do not have the education or experience listed above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Which of the following types of equipment have you used to assess safety hazards?&nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Noise dosimeter. Sound level meter. Calibration equipment. Photo ionization or flame ionization detector. Combustible gas meter. Radiation detector. Confined space monitor. Multi-gas meter. Moisture meter. Voltage/Continuity Tester. Receptacle Tester. Light meter. None of the above. 4 Which of the following have you had experience/training in performing as part of a safety program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Identifying hazardous waste and following proper protocols for disposal Performing safety inspections Performing accident and unsafe conditions investigations Preparing reports and documentation on hazards and abatement Maintaining safety recordkeeping systems Providing training Writing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and safety plans Performing emergency evacuation drills None of the above. 5 Which of the following safety program elements have you have been responsible for preparing, performing, or overseeing as a routine and recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Regular worksite inspections. Job hazard analysis. Preparing accident/incident reports. OSHA recordkeeping determinations, log, and reporting. Preparation or significant updates of disaster plans. Acquiring and maintaining Safety Data Sheets. Tracking mandatory safety training. Monitoring exposure to radiation or hazardous chemicals. Hazardous waste management. Lock-out/tag-out procedures. Personal protective equipment. Maintaining logs/records of safety deficiencies and corrective actions. Organizing and convening a safety committee for an organization or facility. Communicating safety policy and standards to staff or tenants. Chemical hazard communication. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of accident prevention principles and hazard control methods? Answer to this question is required I have advanced knowledge of accident prevention principles and hazard control methods and have used this knowledge to identify trends, reduce hazards, and recommend preventive strategies. I have applied accident prevention principles or hazard control methods to support workplace safety improvements. I have basic knowledge of accident prevention practices and have reported hazards or supported safety improvements under guidance. I have completed training in accident prevention or hazard control but have limited applied work experience. I do not have experience, training, or education in this area. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying and recommending controls for workplace hazards? Answer to this question is required I have independently evaluated hazards, selected appropriate controls, and assessed the effectiveness of implemented measures. I have identified hazards and recommended appropriate controls to reduce workplace risks. I have assisted with identifying hazards or implementing established control measures. I have completed hazard control training but have limited applied experience. I have no experience or training in this area. 8 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of documentation requirements for accidents, near-misses, and unsafe conditions? Answer to this question is required I have comprehensive knowledge of accident, near-miss, and unsafe condition documentation requirements and have used documentation to support analysis, corrective actions, and prevention strategies. I have applied documentation requirements to record accidents, near-misses, or unsafe conditions and support corrective action recommendations. I have assisted with accident reports, near-miss documentation, or incident files under guidance. I have completed training in incident documentation or reporting procedures but have limited applied work experience. I do not have experience, training, or education in this area. 9 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of safety and occupational health training requirements? Answer to this question is required I have comprehensive knowledge of safety and occupational health training requirements and have used that knowledge to identify training needs, develop training approaches, and support compliance. I have applied knowledge of safety training requirements to deliver, coordinate, or track required training. I have basic knowledge of safety training requirements and have assisted with training logistics or records. I have completed safety training or coursework but have limited experience applying training requirements in the workplace. I do not have experience, training, or education in this area. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience developing or delivering safety, occupational health, or environmental training? Answer to this question is required I have developed and delivered safety or occupational health training for diverse staff on topics such as supervisor safety training, new employee safety training, OSHA-required training, OSHEM or other internal safety policies, Hazard Communication, PPE, ergonomics, or life safety. I have delivered established safety training, prepared or adapted training materials, and explained safety requirements to employees or supervisors. I have assisted with safety training sessions, distributed materials, maintained attendance records, or supported training logistics under guidance. I have completed train-the-trainer coursework or safety training but have limited experience delivering training on the job. I do not have experience, training, or education in this area. 11 Which of the following best reflects your experience in providing safety training to staff and visitors? Answer to this question is required I have independently developed training plans, manuals, presentations, and delivered safety training to staff visitors and contractors in a museum, laboratory or industrial setting. I have assisted in developing training plans, manuals, and presentations on safety training in a museum, laboratory or industrial setting. I have given oral presentations. I have no experience in this area. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience advising staff on hazardous materials or hazardous waste handling, storage, labeling, or disposal? Answer to this question is required I have served as a technical advisor on hazardous materials or hazardous waste management in a complex facility or multi-unit environment, interpreted requirements, advised staff, and resolved non-routine compliance issues. I have advised staff on hazardous materials or hazardous waste handling, storage, labeling, or disposal and coordinated with safety or environmental offices as needed. I have followed established procedures for hazardous materials or hazardous waste handling, storage, labeling, or disposal and reported concerns to appropriate staff. I have completed training in hazardous materials, hazardous waste, or hazard communication but have limited applied work experience. I do not have experience, training, or education in this area. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating corrective actions across stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have coordinated corrective actions across divisions/offices/agencies, managers, supervisors, safety offices, staff, contractors, committees, or other stakeholders; resolved competing priorities; obtained agreement on risk controls; and tracked implementation. I have worked with managers, supervisors, safety offices, staff, contractors, committees, or other stakeholders to implement corrective actions and follow up on completion. I have assisted with corrective action tracking, communication, or documentation under guidance. I have completed training in stakeholder coordination, corrective action tracking, or safety communication but have limited applied work experience. I do not have experience, training, or education in this area. 14 Indicate which of the following types of hazardous materials you have had experience in handling. Answer to this question is required asbestos/carcinogenic materials radioactive materials hazardous chemicals flammable chemicals pesticides biohazards heavy metals including arsenic, lead, mercury None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.