Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have at least one year of experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector, in a senior financial or audit role planning and coordinating projects and activities required for the successful administration of a program. Examples may include: Managing a team of financial or audit professionals or overseeing a program; managing the work of a division, planning and adhering to organizational policy, coordinating financial matters under a program, providing advice to corporate officials and staff, and coordinating the review and processing of multi-employer applications, cases, and audits. 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the private sector as described above? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 From the following options related to skill &nbsp;providing financial and regulatory advice , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience serving as an expert and providing financial and regulatory advice experience providing professional regulatory and financial guidance to internal staff experience reviewing and preparing financial reporting submissions for annual reports experience presenting specialized legal and financial advice to leadership and external clients none of the above 3 From the following options related to knowledge of audit procedures and programs , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience working within a multi-employer organization experience performing or managing audit or attestation projects or services experience processing fact specific cases that are financial in nature experience ensuring compliance with regulatory or organizational polices, procedures, and directives None of the above 4 From the following options related to ability to manage a workforce of financial professionals within a company or agency , choose the statements from the list below that reflect your experience and/or training. Answer to this question is required experience managing a team of professionals performing financial and operational functions experience leading team members to accomplish specific projects and reviewing the work of less senior employees experience managing process improvement or quality control measures for an operational program of a company or agency experience examining and evaluating program development, and execution. None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This vacancy announcement is only open to current PBGC employees.&nbsp; Are you a current PBGC employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).