Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have a professional law degree (LLB or JD). Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I am a current member in good standing of the bar of a State or Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Upon the conditional job offer, I will submit a legible copy of my official transcript(s) AND copy of bar membership within 5 business days.&nbsp; Failure to submit the required legible documentation could result in your conditional job offer being rescinded. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Knowledge of immigration law and constitutional law in particular and American public law generally.** Have knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices related to immigration law and constitutional law in particular and American public law generally This encompasses expansive and in-depth knowledge of legal issues regarding immigration law and the U.S. Constitution and a broad general knowledge of administrative law. This also includes knowledge of legal history; trends in the law; the use of constitutional, statutory, regulatory, and common law; and how law interplays with other disciplines. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an authority in immigration law and related aspects of constitutional law and American public law. For example, served as a senior attorney on the legal staff of a legislative committee with jurisdiction over immigration law, constitutional law, and related aspects of American public law matters; served as a senior attorney on immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law issues in an agency, law firm, or organization; regularly consulted and advised decision makers at the highest levels of the private or public sector (e.g., Members of Congress, agency heads, CEO’s) on immigration law and related aspects of American public law; published several articles in peer-reviewed professional law journals on immigration, constitutional, and American public law; or equivalent experience. Have broad knowledge of immigration, constitutional, and American public law and the legal aspects of pertinent public policy issues. For example, completed a law degree from accredited law school and was admitted to the bar of a state, the District of Columbia, a territory of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico AND provided legal counsel on federal laws or regulations or case law concerning immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law; conducted original legal research and analysis concerning immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law which was used by managers or policy-makers in the public or private sector; taught immigration law in a full-time position in a law school; worked as a judicial law clerk; or equivalent experience. Have knowledge of immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law and the legal aspects of pertinent public policy issues. For example, completed a law degree from an accredited law school and was admitted to the bar of a state, the District of Columbia, a territory of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico AND independently conducted legal research concerning immigration law, constitutional, and American public law in a work setting; published legal research concerning immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law as a principal author in a peer-reviewed professional law journal; have some applied experience related to the legal aspects of a public policy issue concerning immigration law , constitutional law, and American public law; or equivalent experience. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze legal issues.** Applied knowledge of immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law to analyze public policy issues. Applied legal research and analytical techniques to complex legal issues. Clarified legal questions, summarized alternatives, and defined their impact. Examples include: 1) identifying emerging legal issues, 2) evaluating legislative proposals, 3) assessing legal implications of government programs or regulations, 4) assessing alternative approaches to legal issues, 5) evaluating the legal components of governmental organization and administrative procedures to accomplish program goals, and 6) evaluating trends and case law. Answer to this question is required Routinely performed AT LEAST FIVE of the above examples in conducting legal analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues related to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law. These issues were of national and/or international significance at the highest levels of the public or private sector. For example, served as a senior attorney for an agency or business on immigration law, constitutional law, and related aspects of American public law; served as a legal consultant on immigration law and constitutional law and related aspects of American public law with national decision-makers in the public or private sector; served as a tenured law faculty member and/or managed a variety of legal research projects related to immigration law, constitutional law, and related aspects of American public law. Routinely performed AT LEAST FOUR of the above examples in conducting legal analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues related to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law in the public or private sector (e.g., government agency, law firm, think tank, nonprofit organization, congressional committee, or corporation). These issues were of national and/or international significance. Frequently performed AT LEAST THREE of the above examples in conducting legal analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues related to immigration law, constitutional law, and related aspects of American public law. These issues were of national and/or international significance in the public or private sectors. For example, served on the legal staff of an agency or business concerned with immigration law, constitutional law and related aspects of American public law; served as an agency legal representative on an inter-agency task force related to immigration law, constitutional law, and related aspects of American public law; published articles in peer-reviewed professional law journals on immigration law, constitutional law, and related aspects of American public law, or equivalent experience. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to write in a legal context.** Wrote a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products on the legal aspects of public policy issues related to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: 1) legal memoranda, 2) legal briefs, 3) law journal articles, 4) decision memoranda, 5) briefing papers, 6) analyses of options, 7) evaluation of legislative proposals, and 8) articles covering a complex legal issue for a major legal publication. Answer to this question is required As a principal job responsibility, wrote analytical legal products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to inform decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law and included AT LEAST FIVE of the examples described above. Frequently wrote analytical products on the legal aspects of complex and controversial public policy issues of national significance for publication or dissemination to audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law and included AT LEAST THREE of the examples described above. Have experience writing analytical products on the legal aspects of complex and controversial public policy issues of national significance for publication or dissemination to audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law and included AT LEAST TWO products within any combination of the examples described above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to convey legal analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. Conveyed legal analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations and other presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, in order to discuss or explain the law and the legal aspects of public policy issues relating to immigration law, constitutional law, and American public law. This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of information to the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Routinely consulted with, advised, and briefed decision-makers at the highest level on legal analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance. Contacts were often initiated by decision-makers. Settings were often unstructured and included those where audience knowledge of the issue ranged from expert to layman and the presenter had to respond to questions without the benefit of obtaining additional information or support. Examples include testifying before a committee of the U.S. Congress; providing oral briefings or formal presentations to senior officials in the private or public sector (e.g., CEO’s, judges, agency heads, executive committees, state legislators); or equivalent experience. Frequently presented legal analysis of complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings included those that required extemporaneous responses. Examples include briefing and responding to legal questions from judges or from policy-makers; teaching a law course; serving as a keynote speaker on legal issues; or equivalent experience. Frequently presented legal analysis of public policy issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Examples include making presentations to clients on legal options; serving as a guest speaker on legal issues in an academic setting; or equivalent experience. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to work collaboratively with others. Led or participated in collaborative research studies or major projects on the legal aspects of a public policy issue involving one or more disciplines. Answer to this question is required Working primarily with colleagues within own organization, routinely led multiple collaborative research studies or major projects involving multiple disciplines related to the analysis of the legal aspects of national and/or international public policy issues. This included leading colleagues at various levels, some of whom held divergent points of view. Occasionally led collaborative research studies or major projects within own organization related to the analysis of national public policy issues. Projects involved colleagues from multiple disciplines and at various levels. Led a collaborative research study or major project within own organization related to a public policy issue and involving colleagues from multiple disciplines. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to build and maintain a professional network. Identified, built, and maintained a professional network with co-workers, congressional Members and staff, officials of government agencies, and colleagues in academia and the research and policy communities. Answer to this question is required Active as a regular participant in and contributor to professional exchanges of information and perspective, allowing ready access to a breadth of respected opinions in a field. Examples include participation on a panel as an expert or an author at a conference, hearing or collaborative publication; service on a committee or task force of experts; or equivalent experience. Becoming established as a member of a formal or informal professional network that deals with advancement or communication of knowledge in a subject matter or policy area, as evidenced by regular attendance at professional meetings and conferences, publications based on interviews with experts or practitioners in a field, participating in a legislative caucus for advancement of policy goals; or equivalent experience. Have some professional contacts in a subject matter or policy area as evidenced by co-authoring a published article, regular contacts with colleagues in the subject matter or policy area; or equivalent experience. None of the above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).