Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in museum work; or in an applicable subject-matter field. I have appropriate combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major as shown 1. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I have four years of experience that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study as shown in 1. above. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Do you have experience conducting scholarly research on artifacts concerning the history of American and international slavery, emancipation and movements for freedom, including producing printed and/or online publications and/or exhibitions, participating in public service efforts, developing a collection of artifacts, serving as a consultant on professional matters, answering public inquiries, and lecturing to professional associations and other organizations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following activities do you have experience conducting research related to the history of American and international slavery, and diasporan movements for freedom? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted historical, cultural, and material culture research on for documentation, interpretation and cataloging. I have researched and written object labels for exhibitions. I have given lectures based on my own research. I have published research articles. I have interviewed numerous experts inside and outside an organization. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above 5 Which of the following best represents your experience in developing museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I worked independently to develop one or more exhibitions. I worked as part of a team to develop one or more exhibitions. I was assigned sections of one or more exhibitions to research and write. I worked as a collections manager for one or more exhibitions. I did graphics and/or photography research for an exhibition. None of the above 6 Which of the following cultural history museum exhibition responsibilities do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have monitored exhibitions for appropriate physical conditions. I have participated in exhibition planning. I have selected objects. I have installed exhibitions. I have de-installed exhibitions. I have prepared objects/collections for loans including condition reports, loan agreements, and transporting objects. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and implementing outreach programs in the American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom? Answer to this question is required I have created, developed and organized outreach programs for African Americans relating to the field of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have worked as a member of a team that created, developed and organized outreach programs in the field of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have worked as a member of a team that created, developed and organized outreach programs. I have created, developed and organized outreach programs. I have no experience developing or implementing outreach programs. 8 Which of the following research related activities do you have experience with related to history and material culture, particularly in the area of community history and the intersection of private and public life? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched objects for documentation and cataloging I have researched and written object labels for the Web I have given lectures based on my own research I have researched topics and written exhibition labels I have published research articles None of the above 9 Which of the following represents your experience researching and writing about museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked independently to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked as part of a team to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked under supervision to research and write about one or more collections. I have interviewed object donors and numerous experts inside and outside of an organization to gather information. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to communicate in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have had experience writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, and recommendations to a supervisor or higher management. I have had experience writing drafts of office-wide reports. I have also made recommendations to supervisors, curators, or higher management. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports, and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have experience writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 11 Have you published at least one peer-reviewed article in a scholarly publication? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following functions have you performed in the field of the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on material culture of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have developed research on the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom relating to material culture collections, identified gaps, and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. I have answered public inquiries on the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom relating to material culture. I have lectured to professional audiences on the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom and material culture. I have lectured to other audiences on African American and Diasporic history and material culture. I have made recommendations on the significance of the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom in exhibitions or publications. I have assisted with the planning and development of exhibitions or publications relating to the history of American and international slavery, the slave trade and African and diasporan movements for freedom. None of the above. 13 Which best describes your ability to conduct historical research and identifying graphics for use in museum exhibitions or projects, using published and unpublished sources in and the material culture of American history? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience conducting historical research using published and unpublished sources about the material culture of American history. I have moderate experience conducting historical research using published and unpublished sources about the material culture of American history. I have minimal experience conducting historical research using published and unpublished sources about the material culture of American history. I have no experience conducting historical research using published and unpublished sources about the material culture of American history. 14 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of cultural property and sensitivity issues related to African American communities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience with these issues. I have had education or training with these issues, but have not yet had to put my knowledge into practice on the job. I have put my knowledge of these issues into practice on the job under close supervision. I have put my knowledge of the issues into practice as a regular focus of a job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have been asked by my supervisor to train or oversee others in collections work involving these issues on a regular and recurring basis because of my thorough knowledge of these issues. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience in working with diverse populations (particularly African American constituents)? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience working directly with African American constituents in a museum, academic, or cultural institution setting and have performed this function as a regular and recurring part of my job. I have moderate experience working directly with African American constituents in a museum, academic, or cultural institution setting and have performed this function occasionally as part of my job. I have limited experience working with diverse populations such as African Americans, African, and/or Afro Diasporan populations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 16 Which of the following curatorial functions have you performed in the field of African American history and culture? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on material culture of African American history and culture. I have developed research on African American history and culture relating to material culture collections, identified gaps, and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of African American history and culture. I have answered public inquiries on African American history and culture relating to material culture. I have lectured to professional audiences on African American material culture. I have lectured to other audiences on African American material culture. I have made recommendations on the significance of African American history and culture for exhibitions, publications, or digital content. I have assisted with the planning and development of exhibitions, publications or digital content relating to African American history and culture. I have been the curator responsible for developing exhibitions, publications or digital content on African American history and culture. None of the above 17 What types of digital experiences have you managed for a museum or similar cultural institution? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Digital exhibitions about African American history and culture. Digital story telling about African and / or American history (e.g. online articles, blog posts, videos, podcasts). Digital exhibitions about American history and culture. Educational programs (online and/or in-person). Social Media engagement based on an organization’s collections, exhibition materials, or educational resources. Email Newsletters distributed to diverse audiences. I do not have experience managing digital experiences for a museum or similar cultural institution. 18 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations Answer to this question is required Coworkers/Peers Grantees Contractors Senior level officials Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Professionals within my organization Professionals from outside my organization Members of the public Foreign visitors Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 19 Which of the following describes your experience or training in speaking with museum colleagues, government agencies, professionals, scholars, and the general public? Answer to this question is required I have completed course work in oral communication. I have made oral presentations about issues in history, arts and culture to professionals, scholars, potential donors, and the general public in a public setting or conference. I have made oral presentations about history, arts and culture topics to museum colleagues, students, and the general public in a public setting. None of the above. 20 Which of the statements describe the oral communication skills you have used as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have made presentations and/or provided classroom training to audiences with varied knowledge levels. I have briefed managers/executives outside of my organization. I have successfully represented my organization in workshops or meetings. I have led professional seminars related to African American history and culture. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.