Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service related to the work of this position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience organizing and managing temporary and traveling museum loan exhibitions, including all packing, shipping, and courier arrangements? (Select One) Answer to this question is required I have experience organizing and managing domestic AND international temporary and traveling loan exhibitions of art, including loans with courier requirements. I have experience organizing and managing domestic OR international traveling loan exhibitions of art, including loans with courier requirements. I have experience helping organize and coordinate arrangements for domestic and international temporary and traveling loan exhibitions of art, including loans with courier requirements. I have experience helping organize and coordinate arrangements for temporary and traveling loan exhibitions of art. None of the above. 3 Which of the following reflects your experience applying registrarial standards, policies, and practices (including legal ramifications) relating to the management, protection, and documentation of loans to carry out and maintain the integrity of loans and exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have experience in a public or private museum performing or overseeing seven of the following nine: handling, movement, loan transactions, shipping, crating, installation, de-installation, documentation, and condition reporting of exhibition objects and structure. I have experience in a public or private museum performing or overseeing five of the following nine: handling, movement, loan transactions, shipping, crating, installation, de-installation, documentation, and condition reporting of exhibition objects and structure. I have experience in a public or private museum performing or overseeing three of the following nine: handling, movement, loan transactions, shipping, crating, installation, de-installation, documentation, and condition reporting of exhibition objects and structure. None of the above. 4 Which statement best describes your exhibition development responsibility? Answer to this question is required I have worked closely with exhibit organizers, lenders, designers, fund raisers, editor, registrars, and content specialists to produce traveling exhibitions I have worked closely with exhibit lenders, designers, editors, registrars, and in-house museum staff to produce temporary exhibitions to be displayed in a single location. I have assisted others in the production of exhibitions intended for the general public. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing an exhibition production for a traveling exhibition? Answer to this question is required I have developed an exhibition action plan from the identification of goals, cost analysis, design arrangement, and organization of a team for installation and dismantling (including equipment and repairs) an exhibition for a traveling exhibit. I have led a team in the progress of an exhibition production such as the planning, design, structure, and/or tour maintenance (including equipment and repairs) of a traveling exhibition. I have assisted a staff in the exhibition structure, installation, and maintenance (including equipment and repairs) of a traveling exhibition. I have conducted research, concept development, planning, schedule, and design for an exhibition production. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience working with lenders of museum-quality art objects? Answer to this question is required I have worked with public and private lenders, both in the US and abroad, and made packing, shipping and courier arrangements for major travelling exhibitions. I have worked with public and private lenders, both in the US and abroad, and made packing, shipping and courier arrangements for exhibition loans. I have worked with public lenders within the US and made packing and shipping and arrangements for loans to in-house exhibitions. I have helped exhibition registrars make packing, shipping, and courier arrangements, but have not contacted lenders directly. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in the preparation of artwork and/ or museum objects for storage and transportation? Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects by determining crate design and selection, object display, condition reporting, exhibition installation and de-installation, and object transportation. I have formal training equivalent to graduate level in art, curatorial studies, or collection management. I have arranged the delivery of artwork and objects by packing artwork and collections so that pieces are not damaged by temperature or humidity. I have assisted museum staff in handling and packing museum objects for shipment. I have not done any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following statements best describe your experience promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Which of the following describe your experience establishing, maintaining and/or fostering teamwork? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with others to achieve goals. I have worked effectively with others to develop and implement operational changes and carry out duties. I have fostered commitment and team spirit. I have worked on teams to accomplish work-related activities. I have collaborated with others to accomplish work-related activities. I have expressed thoughts or opinions in a logical sequence as a member of a work team. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have lead teams and participated as a team member at the local and higher levels in examining issues. I have worked effectively with others as part of a team. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience using software packages such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in using software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects. I have completed training in using software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and maintaining registrarial files? Answer to this question is required I have maintained a computerized system consisting of an accession register, computerized catalogue and index files, and loan agreements of museum objects. I have set up a basic manual documentation system for a museum consisting of accessions, card catalogues, location system, loan agreements, and filing systems. I have assisted Museum personnel in maintaining registrarial in a file cabinet or electronically. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.