Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to apply administrative processes and techniques.** Applied administrative policies, processes and techniques in a professional office setting, and performed the following activities: 1) managing all aspects of the travel and training processes, 2) maintaining databases, 3) acting as a liaison for the office, 4) scheduling meetings and arranging meeting logistics, 5) maintaining staff time and attendance, 6) coordinating and planning space, 7) workload management, 8) managing office communication, 9) preparing meeting agendas and background materials, 10) maintaining office planning calendar, and 11) implementing records management procedures. Answer to this question is required Routinely performed SIX of the above administrative activities for an office. Tracked and maintained office correspondence, files, and/or other documents in both print and electronic form. Routinely performed FIVE of the above administrative activities for an office. Tracked and maintained office correspondence, files, and/or other documents in both print and electronic form. Routinely performed FOUR of the above administrative activities for an office. Tracked and maintained office correspondence, files, and/or other documents in both print and electronic form. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to communicate in writing.** Produced written products related to administrative functions using standard rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation. These documents include: 1) memoranda, 2) reports, 3) meeting minutes, 4) policies and/or standard operating procedures, 5) human resources documentation, 6) travel related documentation, and 7) formal and informal correspondence. Answer to this question is required Prepared AT LEAST FIVE of above documents in an administrative setting. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents, utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Prepared FOUR of above documents in an administrative setting. Prepared reports, letters, memos, emails and other documents utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Prepared THREE of above documents in an administrative setting. Prepared reports, letters, memos, emails and other documents utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to utilize computer technology.** Utilized office technology to perform administrative activities for an organization, including the following: 1) Momentum, 2) eManagement, 3) eTravel, 4) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Access), 5) word processing (e.g., MS Word), 6) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint), 7) automated time and attendance system (e.g., WebTA), 8) electronic calendar, and 9) electronic mail. Applied new and emerging technologies to improve work, productivity, or customer service. Answer to this question is required Routinely used SEVEN of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. Routinely used SIX of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. Routinely used FIVE of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked, cooperated, and developed professional relationships with others, including various individuals throughout the division, directorate, service unit, and the Library to achieve goals and resolve problems and issues related to program objectives. This included actively seeking others' input and contributing expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Assisted the primary contact with assessing customers' needs, worked directly with staff to determine sources for services and provided timely feedback on customers’ needs. Regularly collaborated with other organizations and internal and external customers and coworkers in order to monitor and/or complete work. Assisted the primary contact with assessing customers' needs, under general supervision. Worked with staff to determine sources for services and provided timely feedback on customers’ needs. Regularly collaborated with other divisions within an organization and coworkers in order to monitor and/or complete work. Assisted the primary contact with assessing customers’ needs, under general supervision. Worked with staff to determine sources for services and provided timely feedback to customers. Regularly collaborated with co-workers in order to complete work. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).