Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Applicants applying for the GS-15 grade level must meet the following requirements: Have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service as described below: IT SPECIALIST COMPETENCY REQUIREMENTS: Attention to Detail - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant keeps abreast of latest technology, information, research, etc., to maintain knowledge in the field of expertise (for example, reads trade journals, participates in professional/technical associations, maintains credentials).. Customer Service - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant promotes or develops and maintains good working relationships with key individuals or groups. Oral Communication - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant serves on panels, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. Problem Solving - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant monitors current trends or events (for example, technological, economic, political, social, educational, or employment trends or events) and applies the information as appropriate. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: Specialized experience is: leading enterprise-level information technology (IT) programs in an IT environment, including developing and executing strategy for data governance, artificial intelligence (AI) governance, privacy, or IT governance programs; directing cross-functional teams delivering technology products, platforms, or services; managing project plans, resources, and risks to ensure successful delivery of complex initiatives; overseeing compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and frameworks (e.g., cybersecurity, privacy, or AI risk management); advising senior leadership on technology strategy, governance, and emerging trends; and managing staff, budgets, contracts, and stakeholder relationships to achieve organizational objectives. 1 I have both experience demonstrating all four competencies and I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal services in the areas listed above. Answer to this question is required True False 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-15 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-14 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 3 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-15 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-15 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-15 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-15. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. 4 Please choose the statement that best describes your eligibility to apply for this position (you will only be considered for those you provide documentation to substantiate). Answer to this question is required I am a current federal employee on a competitive service career or career-conditional appointment (Your SF-50, Block 24 must show "1" or "2", and Block 34 must be a "1"). I can be reinstated based on previous employment in the federal service under a career or career-conditional appointment (Your SF-50, Block 24 must show "1" or "2", and Block 34 must be a "1"). I am eligible for one of the following noncompetitive appointments: Veterans Recruitment Appointment (only for appointments at GS-11 and below) Disabled Veterans Persons with severe physical disabilities, intellectual disabilities, and/or psychiatric disabilities Foreign Service Peace Corps Other non-competitive appointing authority I am eligible to be considered under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). I am eligible based on qualifying employment at one of the following organizations: Tennessee Valley Authority Nuclear Regulatory Commission Veterans Health Administration (Department of Veterans Affairs) Non-appropriated Fund - NAF (Department of Defense) Federal Aviation Administration Transportation Security Administration (Department of Homeland Security) Corporation for National and Community Service Postal Career Service or Postal Rate Commission Government Accountability Office (GAO) Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Other I have a basis of eligibility not listed above. I am not eligible to apply for this position. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).