Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 With which of the following program management techniques do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS) Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) Project Management Professional (PMP) None of the above 2 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written technical information for internal & external audiences. I have developed material for communicating information on policies and procedures to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on strategic plans to a broad base of constituents. I have developed materials for communicating information on technical programs to a broad base of constituents. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization on subject matter issues in a technical advisory capacity. I have reviewed reports for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have prepared scientific manuscripts for publication in scientific journals and technical publications. I have published articles and reports in professional, scientific or industrial journals and newsletters, including national or international publications. None of the above. 3 Please indicate which of the following type(s) of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of strategic and tactical planning for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a strategic and tactical plan. Developed and presented a strategic and tactical plan with supporting justifications. Engaged in the strategic / tactical planning process. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a strategic and tactical plan. Applied organizational analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic / tactical decisions. Used white papers and publications for developing strategic and tactical planning. None of the above. 4 Which of the following have you done that demonstate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Developed performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.