Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. NOTE: The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard). OR I have a combination of education and experience, which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Supervisory Operating Accountant must interact with staff, managers, and outside government and public agencies in providing financial guidance, implementing/modifying accounting systems, and reso1ving accounting or budgeting issues for the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed supervisor on accounting information such as account reconciliations, changes in reporting requirements or budget information; and/or I have assisted colleagues with the use of routine accounting platforms; and/or I have worked with others in the branch to ensure previously disseminated information is reiterated; and/or I have handled regular and recurring communication with external contacts; and/or I have provided responses for supervisor to internal inquiries. I have presented budget information to Deputy Assistant Director(s), operations manager(s) and cost center managers; and/or I have presented a financial review to Board of Directors or to corporate management; and/or I have met with departmental staff to coordinate new accounting activities; and/or I have conducted accounting or financial management training to agency personnel; and/or I have interacted with other groups when changing automated computer systems; and/or I have resolved financial management issues affecting the agency with outside entities. I have presented information to departmental staff, subordinates and others as requested; and/or I have assisted with facilitating the dissemination of information to multiple organizational managers; and/or I have resolved issues verbally with other departments, or outside contacts; and/or I have provided feedback on departmental initiatives; and/or I have met with new staff on outlining departmental priorities; and/or I have explained changes within financial systems to other users. None of the above. 4 The Supervisory Operating Accountant must prepare, develop, or revise financial procedures, documents, and reports in maintaining the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and operations of the agency Financial System. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed action plans for audit findings; and/or I have collaborated on written procedures to be used for accounting transactions; and/or I have written to department managers explaining how to resolve problems with accounting codes; and/or I have corresponded with product group Financial Management staff regarding accounting issues. I have provided written updates on projects to supervisor; and/or I have provided information and guidance concerning changes in policies and procedures to field sites; and/or I have proofed and made corrections to accounting documents; and/or I have prepared minutes to department meetings. I have provided written response to outside organizations regarding procedural changes; and/or I have developed or revised accounting operating manuals; and/or I have developed training lesson plans for accounting or financial management classes; and/or I have provided detailed written explanations on new policy pronouncements and procedures; and/or I have created audit correspondence for/to the Executive Staff, or other senior leadership within an organization. None of the above. 5 The Supervisory Operating Accountant must be knowledgeable of accounting principles, theories, and techniques in order to determine the accuracy of financial information, properly record accounting data, and interpret the findings. He/she must make recommendations for improving the financial welfare of an organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided detailed explanations of intricate financial transactions; and/or I have resolved complex audit issues; and/or I have provided financial consultation to senior executives; and/or I have completed corporate period close-out; and/or I have approved multiple and unique journal entry transactions; and/or I have detected period over period changes in corporate financial statements. I have explained financial transactions to peers; and/or I have collaborated with members of the finance group to provide support of organizational accounting practices; and/or I have assisted with the period close-out for selected accounting processes; and/or I have provided feedback on financial statements; and/or I have approved journal entries after consultation with a senior finance staff; and/or I have applied existing financial practices to resolve non-recurring entries into the financial system. I have completed routine financial transactions; and/or I have detected errors in accounting transactions using subsidiary ledgers; and/or I have assisted with completing single transactions for period close; and/or I have prepared journal entries for approval by senior finance staff. None of the above. 6 The Supervisory Operating Accountant must interact with staff to provide training and financial technical assistance, define and explore problems and possible solutions, and render advice on the effect of proposed accounting policies and procedures changes and on measures proposed for improving financial management. He/she must deal objectively and harmoniously with them. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the training of finance staff; and/or I have worked with other members of the branch to improve the skills of accounting staff; and/or I have worked with departmental leadership to incorporate local policy changes; and/or I have collaborated with colleagues to resolve differences in established accounting practices; and/or I have communicated accounting staff assignments to the financial manage. I have created and deployed financial training to finance staff; and/or I have conducted instructional sessions for accountants and non-finance staff; and/or I have assessed concerns from the finance discipline and provided implemented solutions; and/or I have overseen corporate policy changes; and/or I have mediated and resolved differences between financial disciplines in regard to procedures; and/or I have developed metrics for determining successful outcomes for the accounting group. I have identified training gaps in the finance discipline; and/or I have interacted with a supervisor on policy implementation; and/or I have shared concerns with leadership on proposed changes to established finance practices; and/or I have provided assistance to peers in resolving accounting issues. None of the above. 7 The Supervisory Operating Accountant must have knowledge of generally accepted auditing standards and procedures for conducting financial and compliance, economy and efficiency, and program audits. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured senior managers were aware of corporate audit practices; and/or I have provided feedback on controls deployed within the organization to detect audit abnormalities; and/or I have assisted with internal audits; and/or I have ensured corrective actions were implemented; and/or I have performed audit tests as assigned. I have provided feedback on updating review guidelines; and/or I have provided audit guidance to subordinates and peers; and/or I have assisted with developing corrective action plans for internal audit findings; and/or I have participated in internal reviews of controls; and/or I have distributed published audit guidelines to branch chiefs. I have provided detailed follow-up(s) regarding audit sample issues and audit findings; and/or I have interacted with the program review division on leading management assessments; and/or I have created risk assessments for the agency; and/or I have participated in federal audits as a liaison, or technical reference; and/or I have created corrective action plans in response to audit findings; and/or I have worked as a reviewer-in-charge for program and operational reviews; and/or I have provided audit practice justifications. None of the above. 8 The Supervisory Operating Accountant must analyze, draw conclusions, and make determinations as well as recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed the operating plan and provided period updates to the product group; and/or I have provided feedback on underperforming operations and recommended steps for resolution; and/or I have ensured that resources are deployed at year-end to meet the requirements of financial close-out; and/or I have ensured that existing policy meets the needs of the branch; and/or I have developed and implemented activities for streamlining financial procedures and processes. I have ensured that financial accounting practices are followed; and/or I have assisted peers with determining the efficient use of group financial resources; and/or I have worked with supervisory staff to implement group financial efficiencies; and/or I have provided details of existing financial practices when requested; and/or I have provided financial period close-out data, as requested, to supervisor. I have provided input on formulating the operating plan; and/or I have assisted with the assessment of excess and obsolete inventory; and/or I have implemented group financial practices at the local operational level; and/or I have ensured that the group period financial close-out is completed timely; and/or I have gathered information for the product group to assist with asset use determinations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).