Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this job: I have 1 year of specialized experience (as described under the Qualifications section of this announcement) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. I do not meet the experience requirements. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Yes No 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing procurement requests to ensure that they are appropriate and justified? I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience writing procurement requests for the acquisition of equipment and services: I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience monitoring such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met? I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 7 From the following list check the tasks that you perform or have performed on a daily basis in administering contracts: Recommend appropriate actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions. Monitor such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met. Conduct contract reviews to evaluate contractor's performance and monitor activities, ensuring compliance. Negotiate the terms of contracts and agreements with contractors for the procurement of goods and/or services. Review completed contract files, to ensure administrative matters are resolved and/or completed. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience initiating and maintaining systems for review, verification, and tracking of bills for vendor and contract services? I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 9 From the following list check the tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization. I analyze new support services programs to determine how they can best be implemented to support the work of an organization. None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing, interpreting, and applying the laws, rules and regulations that govern support services programs and functions? I independently apply the basic administrative management policies of my agency as well as the procedures and regulations of other agencies (e.g., GSA, GPO) in providing support services to customers. I apply operating instructions and procedures for accomplishing specific work assigned and agency policies and guidelines that specify how the services or functions are to be performed. I independently analyze, interpret, and apply government-wide laws, rules, and regulations and agency specific policies and procedures as well as instruct or advise others on their application to support services programs and functions. Under a supervisor's or colleague's guidance, I apply the basic administrative management policies of my agency as well as regulations and procedures of other agencies (e.g., GSA, GPO) in providing support services to customers. None of the above. 11 In which of the following areas do you have experience analyzing, interpreting, and applying Federal laws, rules, regulations, and procedures? Procurement Space management Printing Records management Contractor administration Property Management Travel Facility Management Customer Service Acquisitions Supply Chain Management Inventory Preservation and Packaging Traffic Management Transportation None of the Above 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience conducting inventories of agency property ensuring proper accounting, documentation, and disposal? I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience planning and coordinating office moves? I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 14 From the following list, please indicate which of the following system(s) you have experience working with: E-2 Travel Solutions Ariba Spend Management - Buyer 8.2 Integrated Logistics Management System (ILMS) Microsoft SharePoint None of the above 15 Check the responses that reflect the types of written information / materials that you prepare: Contracts Procurement requests for the acquisition of goods and services Cost estimates Cost benefit analysis Statements of work Agency policies Standard operating procedures Requirement analyses Feasibility studies Correspondence / Memoranda Forms Issue / briefing papers None of the above 16 Identify the information technology terms and concepts that you have used in a work setting: Classified network switches, hubs, storage devices, routers, and/or network interface cards Cell switches State of the art information technology systems Secured data / voice / video communications Key Management Infrastructure (KMI) KMI policies, standards and procedures (SOPs) Information technology operating techniques Local and wide area networking Electronic Key Management System (EKMS) processes involving multi-tiered system, encrypted key distribution, electronic key distribution, and/or automated inventory reconciliation Cryptographic equipment, material, paper, and/or tape / electronic keys COMSEC Material Control System Communications traffic analysis techniques Type I, II and IIl encryption devices None of the above 17 Which of the following statements best describes your experience conducting space management surveys to determine appropriate allotment and most efficient utilization of space? I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 18 In which of the following areas of building management operations do you have experience? Mechanical operations Custodial operations Waste Management Pest control Repairs and alterations Grounds maintenance Quality assurance Energy conservation Asbestos abatement Electrical systems Vertical transportation None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.