Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Toggle navigation About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-9 level as described below. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I possess 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one or more program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus AND courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. Combination of education and experience -- The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. 2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. 4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field. I do not possess the basic requirements, as described above. Specialized experience is defined as experience performing engineering adequacy and suitability analyses of underground formations or storage of natural gas or oil. 3 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Select the type(s) of modeling software you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Geotechnical Fluid flows Fluid dynamics None of the above 5 Select the type(s) of underground natural gas storage of which you have performed engineering analyses. Answer to this question is required Storage of natural gas in aquifers. Storage of oil in aquifers. Storage of natural gas in underground reservoirs. Storage of oil in underground reservoirs. None of the above. 6 Which tools have you used to assist with the analysis of geologic formations, such as depleted natural gas and / or oil reserves and salt domes? Answer to this question is required Sonar data United States Geological Survey (USGS) maps Well data Well logs None of the above 7 What types of information do you have professional work experience presenting verbally? Answer to this question is required Technical information Non-technical information Results of assessments and investigations Recommendations None of the above 8 Select the responses that describe your professional work experience(s) related to verbal communication. Answer to this question is required I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to instruct or lead. I have communicated information to groups or individuals in order to persuade / negotiate. I have conducted informal training to others on an individual basis. I have conducted informal training to groups None of the above 9 Select the responses(s) that describe(s) the audiences to which you&rsquo;ve independently presented engineering information. Answer to this question is required Landowners Governmental Organizations Federal Agencies State Agencies Local Agencies Developers None of the above 10 Select the ways in which you have contributed to the production of written products. Answer to this question is required I have provided first drafts to others for their review. I have reviewed and provided general comments to others' draft. I have reviewed and provided grammar, spelling, and organization edit to others' drafts. I have reviewed documents specifically for technical accuracy. I have consolidated reports or materials from others into a final product. I have been responsible for written products from start to finish. None of the above. 11 Select the ways in which you have contributed to the production of written engineering products in a professional work environment. Answer to this question is required I have provided first drafts to others for review. I have reviewed and provided general comments to other’s drafts. I have reviewed and provided grammar, spelling, and organization edit to other’s drafts. I have reviewed documents specifically for technical accuracy. I have consolidated reports from others into a final product. I have been responsible for written products from start to finish. None of the above. 12 Choose the response(s) that describe(s) your professional work experience with engineering related information. Answer to this question is required I have experience leading/coordinating multidisciplinary teams (including environmental specialists) that have prepared engineering studies, or interstate natural gas applications, or field studies related to applications for natural gas certificates. I have experience as a member of a multidisciplinary team consisting of engineering and environmental specialists that have prepared engineering studies, interstate natural gas applications, or field studies related to applications for natural gas certificates). I have experience preparing engineering studies, interstate natural gas applications, or field studies related to applications for natural gas certificates. I do not have experience as described above. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you first learn about this vacancy?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required A job search platform (not USAJobs) 1.1 Which platform?&nbsp; Handshake Indeed Glassdoor LinkedIn Other Referral from a FERC employee 1.1 What is the name of the employee?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. University or Professional Career Fair 1.1 What was the name of the University or Sponsored event?&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. FERC Careers on Social Media 1.1 Which social media page?&nbsp; LinkedIn X (Formerly Twitter) Facebook Instagram FERC Website (www.ferc.gov) Email from a FERC Recruiter USAJobs search Other 1.1 Based on your selection please provide more details.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you visited FERC career social media platforms (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 If yes, select the pages visited: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn No 3 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, CTAP/ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 4 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).