Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-07 position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level. This experience is well described in my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this Criminal Investigator position - GL-1811-07 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 level experience participating in evaluation of information, organizing complex information into structured narratives, and in research methodologies. This experience is well described in my application. 2.1 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in determining investigative scope, targets, and strategies.&nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in developing investigative leads and strategies.&nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience organizing complex information into structured narratives. Applying proper grammar, formatting, and professional tone. &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in research methodologies to identify sources of information and evidence. &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in witness and subject interviews, surveillance activities to include searches, seizure, and service of subpoenas.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 2.1 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to successfully understand the guidelines, regulations and procedures associated with investigative work. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to evaluate and differentiate between reliable evidence and hearsay.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to successfully evaluate information, organize complex information into structured narratives. While applying proper grammar, formatting, and professional tone.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education included instruction in research methodologies, source evaluation and information synthesis to identify sources of information and evidence. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education included academic exposure to interview techniques.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to determine investigative scope, targets, and strategies to successfully understand the guidelines, regulations and procedures associated with investigative work.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to develop investigative leads and strategies by evaluating and differentiating between reliable evidence and hearsay.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to evaluate information, organize complex information into structured narratives. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to identify sources of information and evidence Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together exposed you to interview techniques to support witness and subject interviews, surveillance activities to include searches, seizure, and service of subpoenas.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. Superior Academic Achievement- I meet one of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. 2.1 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to successfully evaluate information, organize complex information into structured narratives. While applying proper grammar, formatting, and professional tone.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to successfully understand the guidelines, regulations and procedures associated with investigative work. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to evaluate and differentiate between reliable evidence and hearsay.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education included instruction in research methodologies, source evaluation and information synthesis to identify sources of information and evidence. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education included academic exposure to interview techniques.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 09 1 Choose the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience that qualifies you for this GL-09 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Masters or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL.B. or J.D.) that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position and have provided transcripts with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the first full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided and the experience is well documented in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this Criminal Investigator - GL-1811-09 position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. 2.1 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in determining investigative scope, targets, and strategies.&nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in developing investigative case plans. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in developing investigative leads and strategies.&nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience organizing complex information into structured narratives. Applying proper grammar, formatting, and professional tone. &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In approximately 500 words or less, please describe your experience in research methodologies to identify sources of information and evidence. &nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.6 In 500 words or less, please describe your experience in witness and subject interviews, surveillance activities to include searches, seizure, and service of subpoenas.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. I possess at least one full year of graduate level education. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 2.1 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to successfully understand the guidelines, regulations and procedures associated with investigative work. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education provided foundational knowledge of criminal, civil, and administrative investigative processes. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to evaluate and differentiate between reliable evidence and hearsay.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education prepared you to successfully evaluate information, organize complex information into structured narratives. While applying proper grammar, formatting, and professional tone.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education included instruction in research methodologies, source evaluation and information synthesis to identify sources of information and evidence. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.6 In 500 words or less, please explain how your education included academic exposure to interview techniques.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to determine investigative scope, targets, and strategies to successfully understand the guidelines, regulations and procedures associated with investigative work.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.2 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to understand the criminal, civil, and administrative investigative processes to develop investigative case plans. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.3 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to develop investigative leads and strategies by evaluating and differentiating between reliable evidence and hearsay.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.4 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to evaluate information, organize complex information into structured narratives. Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.5 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together prepared you to identify sources of information and evidence Maximum length of 500 characters. 2.6 In 500 words or less, explain how your education and work experience together exposed you to interview techniques to support witness and subject interviews, surveillance activities to include searches, seizure, and service of subpoenas.&nbsp; Maximum length of 500 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades 1 [16672] An applicant may not have reached his/her 37th birthday at the time of initial appointment to a Federal Law Enforcement covered position within the US Department of Transportation, Office of Inspector General; select the answer choice that describes your age: Answer to this question is required I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have previous service credible under Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS) or Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) law enforcement provisions sufficient to enable me to retire at age 57 with 20 years of creditable service. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position. I am not eligible to apply for this position. I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have not previously served in a Federal law enforcement covered position; however, I am a preference eligible and can apply for this position. 2 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 8.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 8.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).