Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 In which of the following areas do you have experience interpreting and applying U. S. export requirements? Answer to this question is required Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Direct commercial sales Dual use exports Government Defense contracts Customs and Border Protection (CBP) inspections Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Permanent Imports None of the above 2 Select the choices that describe work activities you have performed in project management: Answer to this question is required Managed a project (or significant portion) from its inception through completion. Conducted requirements analysis (i.e., defined project objectives, scope and deliverables; set goals, standards and methods to monitor progress; etc.). Developed action plans and milestones. Administered team work load (or significant portion) including resource management, team leadership, and communication with team members, managers, customers and stakeholders. Implemented project plans including quality assurance processes, project documentation, and post-project reviews and/or evaluations. Responded to evaluation and feedback concerning recommended changes or improvements. None of the above. 3 Select the activities you have performed related to the administration of programs or the management of projects: Answer to this question is required Implemented findings and conclusions resulting from a regulatory review and monitored progress. Served as focal point or team lead on unique or sensitive regulatory / procedural / policy matters. Reviewed team work products and made summary recommendations for improving production quality. Monitored team efforts or workflow to ensure program success, responding with shifts in workload or adjustments to operational procedures. Generated management reports and tracking of performance measures. Trained and developed new or junior employees. None of the above. 4 Select the foreign affairs activities that you have performed: Answer to this question is required Prepared a white paper on a particular foreign affairs issue. Delivered a presentation on a foreign affairs issue at a government or industry meeting. Created and implemented an international business development strategy. Analyzed classified or unclassified intelligence reports. None of the above. 5 With which of the following treaties, regulations, and other regimes have you received training or experience? Answer to this question is required Australia Group (AG) Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Export Administration Regulations (EAR) Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism Guidance on the Import and Export of Radioactive Sources International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) Limited Test Ban Treaty (LTBT) Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) Nuclear Terrorism Convention (NTC) Nuclear testing moratoria Nuclear Weapons Free Zone (NWFZ) treaties or proposals Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty (PNET) Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT) U.N. Security Council Resolution 1540 Wassenaar Arrangement (WA) Zangger Committee None of the above 6 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of US foreign assistance issues: Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International Organizations (IO) (members or staff) Non-governmental organization (NGO) or academic institution General public None of the Above 7 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Academia Colleagues Congress (members or staff) Foreign Government officials General public Government organizations International organization (members or staff) Media Military officials Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Private industry Professional organizations Senior corporate officials Senior Government officials Technical experts None of the above 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedure, or techniques to improve operations. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or programs` goals. None of the above. 9 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 10 Select the answer choice that most accurately describes your level of experience in applying the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have read the AECA and ITAR, listened to presentations, or received formal training, but have not applied on the job. I have read the AECA and ITAR, listened to presentations, or received formal training and I have occasionally applied the law and regulations on the job in basic or non-complex situations. I have applied this knowledge independently and with authority on a regular and recurring basis to ensure compliance with or fulfillment of the legal and regulatory requirements. I have applied, interpreted, identified exceptions to, delivered presentations on the law and regulations or developed recommendations for modifying the AECA or ITAR. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.