Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following statements describe your ability to execute and implement a public program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to organize colleagues, volunteers/interns in the implementation of a public program I have assisted in the development and implementation of a public program I have assigned work to colleagues, volunteers, or interns based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments and the capabilities of the personnel I have developed and presented cultural programs in a museum environment I have developed program hand outs, informational materials for press and informational calendars for developed public programs I have developed outreach plans for the promotion of a public program I have worked closely with Native Americans in the development and implementation of programs that correctly reflect their respective cultures I have compiled evaluations and created final reports I have introduced artists from the stage I have not done any of the above tasks 3 Which of the following describes your experience planning, developing, and/or producing Native American cultural programs for multigenerational and multicultural audiences in museums, cultural centers, science centers, colleges/universities, and tribal communities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Selection of topic or theme for program. Selection of the type of program (lecture, demonstration, hands-on activity, performance, etc.). Identification and/or selection of personnel and presenters to participate in the program. Identification of the appropriate audience for the program. Development of the budget. Selection of appropriate support materials (visual aids, audio equipment, participant materials, etc.). Development and/or drafting of copy or content to accompany or augment the program. Development and/or drafting of marketing/advertising materials for the program. Recruitment and/or coordination activities of volunteers or staff to carry out the program. Coordination of logistics associated with program presenters (such as travel, lodging, honoraria, special needs, etc.). None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes the types of materials you have assisted in writing and developing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Advertisements or advertising copy Postcards, fliers, or mailers for public distribution Public service type announcements Programs or handouts Press releases, photo captions, or calendar listings for media use None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and recommending a marketing strategy? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience creating and implementing a marketing plan, directing marketing strategies and advertising campaign to promote an organization’s mission, program, or brand; managing an operating marketing and public relations budget, collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies, and conducting marketing trends analysis . I have extensive experience implementing a marketing plan, promoting an organization’s mission or programs, managing an operating marketing and public relations budget, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies. I have extensive experience coordinating or leading a marketing plan, promoting an organization’s mission or programs, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies. I have experience promoting an organization’s mission or programs, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing a Department budget? Answer to this question is required A regular on-going component of my work has been to prepare and maintain annual department budgets and projected budgets for upcoming projects. I have prepared budgets for digital media projects. I have contributed specific budget information for overall annual departmental budgets. I have contributed specific budget information for upcoming projects. I have gathered (as requested) budgetary information. I have no experience preparing budget items. 7 Do you have experience developing annual budget based on program objectives and knowledge of cost associated with developing individual or series of public programs? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing an annual public program budget. I have completed formal education or training in developing an annual budget for individual public programs or a public program series, but have not performed this task routinely. I have developed an annual budget for an individual public program or series based on museum collections, exhibitions, or museum or external initiatives under the supervision of a manager, or senior employee to ensure thoroughness compliance with established procedures. I have developed an annual budget for an individual public program or series based on museum collections, exhibitions, or museum or external initiatives independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed an annual budget for an individual public program, schedule, or series based on museum collections, exhibitions, or museum or external initiatives independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed it myself routinely, and have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of public programming staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in a public programs department, creating work plans and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating the work of subordinates including the development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience interviewing candidates for departmental vacancies. I have experience providing counseling to employees including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counseling memoranda. None of the above. 9 Which statement best describes your experience supervising staff or team projects? Answer to this question is required I supervised staff by setting goals and priorities, assigning work, evaluating performance, and holding employees accountable for results. I led staff or teams by assigning work and monitoring progress but did not have full supervisory authority. I served as a team lead or project lead without responsibility for performance evaluation. I have not supervised staff. 10 Which of the following reflect your experience managing workforce and resources or team projects? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed workload priorities. I have managed training or spending plans to support organizational goals. I have adjusted work assignments or schedules to meet changing priorities. I have managed resources under established direction. I have no experience in this area. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.