Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience must demonstrate all of the following: (1)&nbsp;Providing Human Capital guidance and administrative support for an office to include using a variety of automated human resource information systems to create documents, spreadsheets and reports; (2)&nbsp;Tracking various types of information to provide status updates and ensure deadlines/due dates are met; (3) Researching human resource policies and procedures and briefing management officials on any changes; and (4)&nbsp;Entering information into an automated personnel system to create various personnel actions. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience must demonstrate all of the following: (1) Independently providing comprehensive human capital guidance and administrative support for an office to include using a variety of automated human resource information systems to create and analyze documents, spreadsheets and reports; (2)&nbsp;Tracking various types of information to provide status updates and ensure deadlines/due dates are met; (3)&nbsp;Researching human resource policies and procedures and briefing management officials on any changes; (4)&nbsp;Serving in a responsible program liaison role addressing human capital operation to support the organization. Serves as customer service representative to supervisors and employees regarding various human resources services and concerns; and (5) Communicating with the management team on the status of different work activities and efforts. Reports regularly on the progress of specific cases. Advises and recommends innovative approaches for addressing workplace employee relations matters in a proactive manner. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you delivered presentations to explain organizational policies and procedures to employees and management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the statements that describe your oral communication skills with your clients. Answer to this question is required Listened to and assured understanding of issues. Conveyed more involved, multiple-issue information to clients. Explained the application of HR policies and procedures and identified options available within established guidelines to meet clients' needs. Conducted training and orientation programs for management and employees on employee benefits. Provided Human Resources management advice on issues requiring interpretation and adaptation of regulations. Provided advice and guidance to management officials and individual employees on employee benefits when the issues were complicated by various eligibility determinations. None of the above. 3 Select the types of office automation tools/systems you have used on a regular basis to maintain the efficiency of Human Resources operations. Answer to this question is required Electronic Calendar (e.g., Microsoft Outlook or equivalent) Tracking logs (e.g., Word, Excel or equivalent) Word processing (e.g., Microsoft Word or equivalent) Human Resources Information System (e.g., PeopleSoft, Oracle, Federal Personnel and Payroll System) Automated Time and Attendance system Shared electronic folders Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint or equivalent) SharePoint None of the above 4 Select the statement that best describes your experience with entering data accurately into computer database systems or spreadsheet programs. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have had education or training administering, working with, or performing this task or function, but have not yet used it on the job. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function with close review and assistance from a supervisor, a senior employee, or a senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job and only in unique or unusual situations did I require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee, or senior consultant. I have administered, worked with, or performed this task or function as a regular part of a job, even in unique or unusual situations. I do not require assistance or review by a supervisor, senior employee or senior consultant. Others regularly consult me for my expertise and assistance in administering, working with, or performing this task or function. I have trained or instructed others on this task or function. 5 What tasks did you perform to administer a human resources program? Answer to this question is required Initiated and coordinated requests for personnel actions with the human resources office. Provided position and workforce management advice and recommendations. Assisted in the management and development of position descriptions and job analysis. Advised management on incentive awards. Consulted with supervisors on sensitive or difficult employee relations problems. Identified training needs and recommended training for employees. None of the above. 6 Have you been responsible for contacting applicants to set up interviews? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 From the following choices, select the written products for which you have frequent, recurring experience editing and writing: Answer to this question is required Guidelines or procedural instructions for Agency programs, procedures, or regulations Agency policy statements Reports, memorandums, correspondence, etc., for the signature of key Agency officials Internal Agency communications Position descriptions None of the above 8 Do you have experience with the administrative tasks of human capital management, such as recruitment/hiring, performance management, awards, discipline and training? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Have you explained organizational policies and procedures to employees and management? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Have you advised staff and management on human capital policies and procedures to keep an organization informed and in compliance with rules and regulations? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which of the following office support skills do you possess? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Coordinated internal and external contacts to facilitate the needs of the office. Coordinated and directed office support activities and managed a wide variety of records, reports, and files. Responded to inquiries that required an explanation or interpretation of established policies, procedures, and programs. Planned and facilitated simple and routine support activities; coordinated with others to complete tasks and established priorities. None of the above. 12 Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) the type(s) of person-to-person communication or briefings you have performed as a regular and reoccurring part of your job. Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to internal or external audiences. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. I have conducted training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have coordinated meetings, workshops, or conferences. I have delivered presentations to groups at work or in other environments. I have provided briefings on controversial issues. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above. 13 In which ways have you communicated with employees? Answer to this question is required Coached employees on job performance. Explained performance expectations. Led meeting discussions. Trained employees on new policies and/or procedures. Corrected inappropriate behavior. Described disciplinary actions being implemented. Advised employees of policies and procedures. Provided briefings on special events and/or unusual operational requirements. Explained employee schedules. None of the above. 14 Choose the typical work assignments that you perform on a recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Reviewed recruitment materials, including position descriptions (PDs), job analyses, job assessment questions, vacancy announcements, selection certificates, etc. for Wage Grade (WG) and General Schedule (GS) positions. Advised management on recruitment, assessment strategy and selection processes. Provided advice and guidance to management that reflected a thorough knowledge of, and adherence to, human resources regulations, laws, practices, and procedures. Provided advice on position classification issues ensuring that the application of federal position classification standards are accurate and consistent. Provided advice and guidance to management regarding reorganizations, functional changes, and personnel changes. None of the above. 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.