Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act. 30% or More Disabled Veteran. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT, by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Assistant Human Resource Manager communicates with Executive staff, management, line staff, applicants and the general public. He/she responds to technical questions, gives personnel related presentations, testifies on the agencies behalf if necessary, conducts local union negotiations and conducts recruiting trips. He/she must establish and maintain positive working relationships in all areas of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised the Warden/CEO or department head/managers on the basic personnel policy requirements; and/or I have participated in a job fair; and/or I have counseled an employee on work performance opportunities; and/or I have counseled employees on employee benefit programs. I have developed a career information program for public presentation; and/or I have served as the local expert in recommending to management possible disciplinary options in specific cases; and/or I have advised the Warden/CEO and executive level/top management staff in regards to complex personnel issues such as staffing for hard to fill positions, department manpower reorganization or institution position management; and/or I have testified on the agency's behalf during legal/arbitrary proceedings. I have discussed personnel issues with managers and suggested ways to help improve moral; and/or I have advised local staff on implementation of new personnel policies; and/or I have presented a personnel seminar; and/or I have advised management regarding staffing methods and selection procedures; and/or I have brainstormed with other department heads in preparing position descriptions. None of the above. 5 The Assistant Human Resource Manager writes local policy, prepares grievance responses, congressional responses and other correspondence for executive signature. He/she must be able to effectively correspond with people at all levels of the organization and with outside parties. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have revised institution supplements or local policy; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report; and/or I have reviewed and revised crediting plans for unique positions; and/or I have written congressional responses for executive signature; and/or I have written recommendations for bureau-wide awards; and/or I have written proposal and decision letters for adverse or disciplinary action. I have developed local policy adopted for use by the institution/organization/agency; and/or I have written a grievance response to a local or national grievance; and/or I have written a position description for a position unique to the institution or agency; and/or I have written a proposal to establish a special salary rate table for a specific location or occupational series; and/or I have written an institution supplement in response to a new Program Statement. I have prepared performance evaluations; and/or I have written lesson plans for a training class; and/or I have written justifications for retention allowance, recruitment bonus, above minimum request or age waiver; and/or I have prepared justification for employee reimbursement of business related costs. None of the above. 6 The Assistant Human Resource Manager must have knowledge of recruitment, staffing and placement, position classification and pay, employee relations and equal employment opportunity. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a recruitment program for a Medical Facility or Correctional Complex; and/or I have advised management on unique classification issues for one of a kind positions; and/or I have written and interpreted personnel policy for management; and/or I have written a comprehensive staffing plan for a new activation; and/or I have assisted management in removing staffing barriers creatively utilizing pay incentives for a variety of hard-to-fill professional positions. I have explained qualification determinations for technical positions; and/or I have requested appointments above the minimum rate; and/or I have conducted pre-employment interviews and made suitability determinations; and/or I have provided justification for objections for candidates on a certificate of eligibles; and/or I have advised employees on various appointment authorities, such as Veterans Readjustment Act (VRA) or Outstanding Scholar; and/or I have researched and provided documentation for an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) case. I have successfully increased local wage grade hourly rates; and/or I have processed employment waiver justification for Regional Director's signature; and/or I have processed delegated examining unit (DEU) certificate of eligibles and reviewed relevant files. None of the above. 7 The Assistant Human Resource Manager must manage and advise on the following programs: employee compensation, leave administration, employee relations, incentive awards, affirmative action issues, staffing and classification. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked as a Human Resource Specialist in a Headquarters/resource office providing personnel field support; and/or I overseen the processing of basic personnel actions; and/or I have advised a field office on pay setting issues; and/or I have maintained and updated position management reconciliation reports; and/or I have modified an existing lesson plan to accommodate local needs. I have ensured the active recruitment and placement of women and minorities in locations having relatively low cultural diversity; and/or I have participated as a team leader in a new re-engineering work group; and/or I have developed short and long term goals for new employees; and/or I have briefed top management on major HR initiatives and recommended options for local implementation; and/or I have advised the Warden/CEO on complex staff accommodation/disability issues. I have participated in an established re-engineering work group; and/or I have analyzed class evaluation forms and made modifications to curriculum or presentation as needed; and/or I have provided training/guidance on staffing and placement procedures; and/or I have adapted guidelines, instructional methods, course materials or training aids for use in existing training programs; and/or I have advised management on incentive award policy and procedures; and/or I have conducted formal training course for managers on performance appraisals or Labor Management Relations; and/or I have conducted personnel or training operational or program reviews or comparable internal/external audits; and/or I have worked with a supervisor to address training concerns to improve employee performance. None of the above. 8 The Assistant Human Resource Managers must be aware of all relevant policies and guidelines in order to effectively manage an employee services program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as the Reviewer in Charge for an operational review, or comparable internal audit; and/or I have provided guidance to new staff regarding policy and monitored their work to ensure compliance with policies and regulations; and/or I have participated as a member of a program review team or comparable external audit comparing current practice against policies and procedures. I have developed local office procedures for conducting personnel functions that complied with national policy; and/or I have set pay for new employees in accordance to governing regulations; and/or I have advised employees of their rights during an disciplinary or adverse action. I have researched and interpreted technical policies to resolve an issue concerning human resources; and/or I have drafted a local institutional supplement on a human resource topic; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment of human resource functions to determine needed changes to policy; and/or I have provided response or served as a representative during a Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) case. None of the above. 9 The Assistant Human Resource Manager must provide information on a wide range of labor management issues which require them to be knowledgeable on Department of Justice and Bureau of Prisons regulations as well as case law. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have investigated and advised management on an employee grievance and prepared a response; and/or I have testified as a subject matter expert during legal proceedings; and/or I have advised executive staff on preparation of settlement agreements; and/or I have provided advice to management regarding arbitration; and/or I have advised management on issues and sanctions regarding staff discipline, leave abuse or performance issues; and/or I have participated in alternative dispute or other informal resolution to resolve a Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB), Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) or Arbitration issue; and/or I have facilitated negotiations on a local supplement to the Master Agreement. I have used the Master Agreement to determine issues related to a grievance; and/or I have utilized case law when preparing documents for a hearing; and/or I have reviewed agency regulations before responding to an inquiry about performance appraisals; and/or I have utilized Title 5/CFR to formulate a response to a request for information; and/or I have advised managers on counseling or reprimanding an employee; and/or I have researched legal precedents regarding disciplinary or grievance actions. I have provided necessary documentation to management regarding an appeal with the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB); and/or I have participated in Labor Management Relation meetings; and/or I have organized a folder with pertinent case law information; and/or I have collected information on Unfair Labor Practices (ULP); and/or I have retained files on standard formats for various disciplinary actions; and/or I have organized documents for a Union's request for information. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).