Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 4 From the list below, identify all of the activities with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Determining the extent to which a program is compliant with policies, regulations and legislation. Formulating program requirements, guidelines and policies and regulations. Interpreting requirements, guidelines and policies and applying to program operations. Writing program regulations. None of the above. 5 From the following list, select the laws, regulations and guidance that you research, interpret and apply on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Operations Manual Qualifications Standard for General Schedule Positions Guide to Personnel Data Standards United States Code (Title 5) Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards and Guides Federal Wage System Job Grading Standards Executive Orders Comptroller General Decisions Senior Executive Service (SES) Guide Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) None of the above 6 Choose the statement that BEST describe your skill in handling policies: Answer to this question is required I have represented and promoted the policy positions of officials related to human resources policies and procedures. I have designed, developed and implemented human resources management policies, procedures, standards and practices in accordance with Federal statutes. I have facilitated needed policy changes and modified processes in response to changing Federal policies and management assessments. I have analyzed and interpreted policy guidance contained in legislation, regulations, GAO guidelines, and policy directives. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 7 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 8 From the following list please select those to whom you have provided human resources advisory services. Answer to this question is required Human Resources Specialists Field Representatives Employees Supervisors Management Officials Colleagues/Peers Government officials General Public Union officials State, local and federal agencies Private industry Family members Foreign Service Nationals Foreign Governments International Organizations None of the above 9 Choose all response(s) that demonstrate the types of human resource management duties that you have performed in the area of recruitment and staffing: Answer to this question is required Developed job analyses, KSAs, and rating guides. Performed basic qualifications analysis. Conducted rating and ranking panels to determine the best qualified candidates. Provided advice and guidance to applicants on applying for federal jobs. Written vacancy announcements for delegated examining announcements. Written vacancy announcements for merit promotion vacancies. Developed questions for use in recruitment efforts through an automated staffing system. Consulted with managers regarding succession planning and position management. Set employee pay on new hires and promotions. Written or revised local policies and operating procedures on merit promotion. Participated in recruiting at a job fair / career fair on campus recruitment. Developed questions for a structured interview. Developed advertisements for web recruiting, journals, magazines and newspapers. Developed a comprehensive recruitment strategy for an occupational group or key positions at an agency level. I have no staffing or recruitment experience. 10 Choose ALL of the statements that describes your level of experience in providing compensation guidance and technical assistance: Answer to this question is required I respond to all basic pay adminstration questions related to pay increases, promotions, reassignments, change to lower grade (postions), change in geographic locations etc. I set pay for newly hired employees. I provide managers, supervisors, employees, and applicants with information on recruitment and retention flexibilities. I answer inquires concerning setting pay for work performed at higher levels, leave, promotions, overtime, and other pay questions. I set pay involving complex situations including changes between federal, state and/or private pay systems, advanced salary rates, and back-pay. I interpret and analyze pay regulations to analyze employee and payroll information to identify and resolve pay setting errors or discrepancies. Provide advice and guidance on work scheduling and hours of work and premium entitlement associated with various schedules, (i.e., alternate work schedules, compressed work schedules, differentials, etc.). None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.