Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education) Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed one year of progressively higher-level graduate education in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position. I have successfully completed the requirements for a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related KSAs/competencies necessary to satisfy the minimum qualifications and perform the duties of the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 5 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific IT-related knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, skill, and experience installing, configuring, troubleshooting, testing, and maintaining hardware and software to Museum IT Systems? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated with end users and other specialists to resolve issues associated with installing, configuring, troubleshooting, testing, and maintaining hardware and software to Museum IT Systems. I have participated on a team with other specialists installing, configuring, troubleshooting, testing, and maintaining hardware and software to Museum IT Systems. I have independently installed, configured, troubleshooted, tested, and maintained hardware and software to Museum IT Systems. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training with analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements? I have completed formal education or training in analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed information systems management and maintenance requirements under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have analyzed information systems management and maintenance requirements as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. Analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements has been a central or major part of my work. I am usually consulted as an expert in performing this task. 4 Which statement best describes your experience administering data backup systems? Answer to this question is required I have professionally administered and distributed data backup systems for critical data. I have professionally administered cloud-based data backup systems. I have professionally administered fault tolerant data backup systems. I have professionally administered data backup systems for workgroups. I have used computers with individual data backup systems. I have no experience with the administration of data backup systems. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of and experience in selecting and using federal, state, and local museum rules, regulations and procedures for development of lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements? Answer to this question is required I have used my experience to collaborate with end users and other specialists to select and use federal, state, and local museum rules, regulations and procedures to develop lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have participated on a team of with other specialists to select and use federal, state, and local museum rules, regulations and procedures to develop lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have independently selected federal, state, and local museum rules, regulations and procedures to participate in the development of lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have independently selected applicable federal, state, and local museum rules, regulations and procedures to review and analyze lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 6 Select the statement below that describes your knowledge and experience with purchasing. Answer to this question is required I serve in a purchasing role for an organization at the assistant level or higher. I assist my supervisor with purchasing. I have some knowledge of purchasing and work as a team in completing the work. I have no knowledge of purchasing. 7 Which of the following IT customer support duties have you performed on a routine basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Desktop support. Network operations. Direct technical support for desktop computers, laptops, and printers. Tracking customer service request (e.g. Heat Tracking). Providing advice and solutions to a wide range of IT issues. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements best describe your experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have experience providing customer service while meeting the needs of all visitors in a fast paced, high volume environment. I have experience in a museum or cultural institution interacting with visitors and providing customer service while meeting the needs of all visitors in a fast paced, high volume environment. I have experience providing customer service that is not described in the above options. I do not have experience providing customer service. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in IT customer service and support? Answer to this question is required I have three or more years of experience providing customer support to end users, including executives and other senior personnel, in multiple locations. I have three or more years of experience servicing multiple end users in multiple locations. I have experience configuring and deploying equipment to end users under the supervision or oversight of a senior IT manager. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.