Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to apply safety regulations, interpret instructions and follow directions.** Interpreted instructions, specifications and applicable safety regulations pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of cargo and passengers. Answer to this question is required Independently interpreted instructions, specifications and applicable safety regulations pertaining to laws and regulations related to operating motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of valuable cargo AND passenger according to delivery schedules. Drivers’ license has never been suspended or revoked due to one or more moving violations. Interpreted instructions pertaining to laws and regulations related to operating motor vehicles and the safe and timely delivery and pick up of valuable cargo AND passengers. Drivers’ license has never been suspended or revoked due to one or more moving violations. Has picked up and safely delivered cargo. Drivers’ license has never been suspended or revoked due to one or more moving violations. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to operate motor vehicles.** Ability to operated gasoline, diesel or electric powered motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight up to 26,000 pounds, to transport government documents, haul cargo, passengers, and/or equipment. This requires a valid Driver&rsquo;s License and a current Commercial Driver&rsquo;s License (CDL). Answer to this question is required Operated a variety of motor vehicles with approximate gross weights up to 26,000 pounds (e.g. passenger, van, bus, and box truck vehicles) on all types of roadways in all traffic and weather conditions. Performed operator maintenance on all vehicles operated. Currently holds a valid commercial driver's license with authorization to drive motor vehicles with approximate gross weights up to 26,000 pounds Operated a motor vehicle with approximate gross weights of 10,000 -26,000 pounds (e.g. passenger, van, bus, and box truck vehicles) on all types of roadways in all traffic and weather conditions. Performed operator maintenance on all vehicles operated. Currently holds a valid commercial driver's license with authorization to drive motor vehicles with approximate gross weights up to 26,000 pounds Operated a motor vehicle with approximate weight up to 5,000 pounds (e.g., passenger, van, bus, and truck vehicles) on all types of roadways in all traffic and weather conditions. Performed operator maintenance on all vehicles operated. Currently holds a valid commercial driver's license with authorization to drive motor vehicles with approximate gross weights up to 26,000 pounds None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to perform standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities. Followed the proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities which include: 1) completing pre-trip inspections (monitors fluid levels, replaces air filters and interior lights, checks tire pressure and hose connections, and washes vehicles), 2) recording and maintaining preventive maintenance records, 3) documenting day-to-day trip logs, and 4) completing accident reports as required. Answer to this question is required Maintained and operated various motor vehicles following proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities by performing ALL of the above. Oversaw and participated in loading and unloading cargo, ensuring it was performed properly and safely. Determined best loading practices to achieve load balance and protection for fragile items. Maintained and operated motor vehicles following proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities by performing THREE (3) of the above. Loaded and unloaded cargo properly and safely. Maintained and operated motor vehicles following proper protocol of standard motor vehicle operator responsibilities by performing TWO of the above. Assisted in loading and unloading cargo properly and safely. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to operate materials handling equipment and knowledge of warehouse procedures. Operated materials handling equipment including: 1) forklift, 2) reach truck, 3) order picker, 4) powered pallet jacks and 5) manual pallet jacks to store materials in a supply/warehouse facility, including its proper arrangement and the sequencing of loading and unloading. Answer to this question is required Operated a wide variety of materials handling equipment, including forklifts AND all of the materials handling equipment listed above to perform the full range of warehouse functions to load and unload material in a large storage facility of more than 20,000 square feet. Performed routine maintenance on equipment and detected equipment malfunctions. Operated materials handling equipment including forklifts AND all of the materials handling equipment listed above to load and unload material in a storage facility. Performed routine maintenance on equipment and detected equipment malfunctions. Operated materials handling equipment including forklifts and limited experience operating other powered materials handling equipment to load and unload material. Performed routine maintenance on equipment and detected equipment malfunctions. None of The Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to interact with others. Works well and cooperates with others (e.g., coworkers, supervisors). This includes showing understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, patience, politeness, and respect for others. Answer to this question is required Frequently interacted with supervisors, co-workers and members of the public from varied and diverse backgrounds OR worked well with instructors and classmates in an education setting. For example, often took a lead role in organizing a team and ensuring assignments were completed on time with ongoing communications and input from other team members. Interacted with supervisors, co-workers and members of the public providing basic information OR worked well with instructors and classmates in an education setting using a high degree of diplomacy, tact, professionalism and respect for others in accomplishing group assignments. For example, worked as part of a team to complete projects or work assignments using a high degree of diplomacy, tact, respect for others and professionalism. Interacted with supervisors and co-workers providing basic information OR worked well with instructors and classmates in an education setting. For example, worked as part of a team to complete work assignments using a high degree of diplomacy, tact, professionalism and respect for others in accomplishing group assignments. None of The Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).