Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 3 I have conducted research on pre-1945 British or American art. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Complete the following statement accurately: I have experience working in a curatorial department in a museum, specifically dealing with art made between 1800 and 1900. Answer to this question is required True False 5 Choose the art historical area(s) that you have developed interpretive content or resources related to: Answer to this question is required American Painting and Sculpture British Painting and Sculpture French Painting and Sculpture Italian Painting and Sculpture Latin American Art Native American Art Northern European Painting and Sculpture Spanish Painting and Sculpture Modern and Contemporary Art None of the above 6 I have produced exhibitions on nineteenth-century American paintings. Answer to this question is required True False 7 I have directed acquisitions of paintings for museums through gift and purchase. Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.