Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Internal memorandum Publications Books Academic papers Journal articles Thesis Dissertation Assessments Newspaper articles Intelligence Analysis Legal / Criminal Justice Analysis None of the above 2 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 3 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to apply inductive and deductive reasoning to analyze and evaluate information relevance, significance, validity, and potiential applications to draw conclusions and recommend alternatives? Answer to this question is required I have experience in analyzing and evaluating structured and unstructured data / situations to develop solutions, when the data has significant gaps or is difficult to validate, has consisted of assignments conducted while pursuing formal education or training. I have demonstrated work experience in analyzing and evaluating structured and unstructured data / situations to develop solutions when the data has significant gaps or is difficult to validate. I have demonstrated work experience in applying clear reasoning, using all available information; developing new ways to gather and evaluate information; using appropriate analysis procedures and methods. I am able to make sound decisions on the spot and develop alternative solutions, evaluating each to determine the potential consequences. I have demonstrated work experience in, and I am a recognized expert in strategic intelligence programs in geographical or functional fields. I have conducted large scale complex, multi-regional and long-term analytical projects that generated complex research issues. None of the above. 4 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established working relationships? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Supervisors Managers Members of the academic community Government organizations Private industry Law enforcement officials Technical experts Professional organizations Nongovernmental organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Law enforcement organizations Foreign government officials None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency policy coordination. I have work experience representing my agency in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 6 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education training or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency intelligence policy coordination. I have work experience representing my bureau in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing intelligence policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency intelligence policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 7 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 9 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 10 Which of the following describes your ability to recommend strategies to improve the efforts of an organization`s intelligence program? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.