Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST possess one of the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for this position. Institute of Hazardous Material Management (IHMM) Certified Hazardous Materials Manager (CHMM) American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH) Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP) Certified Safety Professional (CSP) Institute of Hazardous Materials Managers (IHMM) Certified Hazardous Materials Practitioner (CHMP) National Environmental Safety &amp; Health Training Association (NESHTA) Certified Environmental, Safety &amp; Health Trainer (CET) National Registry of Environmental Professionals (NREP) Certified Environmental Auditor (CEA) Certified Environmental Systems Manager (CESM) Certified Industrial Environmental Toxicologist (CIET) Board of Environmental, Health &amp; Safety Auditor Certifications (BEAC) Certified Professional Environmental Auditor (CPEA) 2 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess one or more of the certifications listed above. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit proof of current certification. This documentation MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Environmental Protection Specialist must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to effectively convey technical environmental related information to others, both internal and external to the Bureau of Prisons. He/she is responsible for conducting public meetings with skeptical participants and explains Bureau of Prisons programs and goals with community officials and the general public. Additionally, he/she represents the agency in environmental meetings, conferences and consultation meetings with other governmental agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have communicated environmental policies and procedures to other agency/organization personnel; and/or I have participated as a member of a workgroup to resolve multi-agency/organization environmental concerns; and/or I have facilitated a training course/presentation to co-workers/peers. I have represented agency/organization during environmental mitigation, which resulted in approval of proposed plans; and/or I have presented construction plans/environmental impact information during community meetings; and/or I have participated on a task force that produced a program or resolution to an environmental issue. I have explained recurring procedures to co-workers; and/or I have responded to general inquiries received from other departments concerning environmental related issues; and/or I have communicated work status on projects to supervisor during departmental meetings; and/or I have informed supervisor of environmental concerns at a potential site location. None of the above. 6 The Environmental Protection Specialist must be able to communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, following established rules and guidelines. He/she is responsible for preparing reports, responds to incoming correspondence concerning Bureau of Prisons environmental procedures, and prepares a variety of written environmental documentation and correspondence. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared environmental reports for agency/organization compliance; and/or I have developed policy on a new environmental procedure/impact; and/or I have responded to legislative inquiries regarding environmental impact issues. I have drafted environmental update reports for review/approval by supervisor; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of site evaluation reports; and/or I have updated supplements and/or internal policy to comply with changes to laws or regulations. I have prepared requests for purchase for environmental services; and/or I have written reports and informational memoranda to the supervisor; and/or I have drafted recurring monthly/quarterly reports for review and approval; and/or I have assisted in preparing environmental update reports. None of the above. 7 The Environmental Protection Specialist is required to research, analyze and interpret information in order to develop, guide and provide advice on environmental issues/concerns impacting Bureau of Prison current or proposed operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted research on the Internet to locate established environmental laws, regulations, and guidelines to aid in the preparation of recurring environmental reports; and/or I have coordinated with and obtained information from federal, state and local environmental offices to gather information requested by supervisor; and/or I have ensured all required supporting documentation/forms/reports were contained in environmental files. I have analyzed and developed for further consideration environmental program objectives or procedures; and/or I have recommended changes to local environmental procedures to streamline current process; and/or I have reviewed proposed policy change and provided recommendations for further consideration on methods of implementation, or possible impact to operations; and/or I have researched and analyzed various sources of information to respond to internal inquiry received regarding possible selection of future building sites. I have conducted research on the Internet to locate established environmental laws, regulations, and guidelines to aid in the preparation of recurring environmental reports; and/or I have coordinated with and obtained information from federal, state and local environmental offices to gather information requested by supervisor; and/or I have ensured all required supporting documentation/forms/reports were contained in environmental files. None of the above. 8 The Environmental Protection Specialist possesses comprehensive knowledge of the various procedures, concepts and practices in order to assist the agency in developing and implementing programs in compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided briefings to agency/organization personnel on changes in regulations affecting assigned program areas; and/or I have recommended updates to existing environmental procedural manual or guidebook based on changes to governing regulations; and/or I have assisted in performing site inspections for compliance with environmental regulations. I have gathered updated environmental regulations and drafted potential effects of changes to agency/organization program; and/or I have assembled material and data to be used for briefing papers; and/or I have participated in team site inspections. I have developed and provided persuasive briefings to the public on the positive environmental impact of a proposed action (i.e., new facility, road expansion and dune control); and/or I have developed portions of an agency/organization environmental procedural manual or guidebook in compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have inspected large sites for compliance with federal environmental regulations, identified any deviations or deficiencies, and implemented appropriate corrective action. None of the above. 9 The Environmental Protection Specialist must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and/or inmate population in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed or coordinated an organization’s financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).