Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Budget Analyst interacts with management officials and other agency staff by providing financial advice and guidance, as well as making presentations on budget related issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a discussion in a departmental/staff meeting; and/or I have responded to routine inquires on budget issues; and/or I have provided travel processing training to local staff. I have answered questions from Cost Center Managers regarding availability of funds; and/or I have interacted with lower level subordinates to provide financial management guidance; and/or I have provided status of projects/assignments to supervisors during recurring departmental meetings. I have answered questions regarding local budget issues and departmental funding status data; and/or I have attended and actively participated in routine monthly/quarterly local level budget meetings (Salary Subcommittee, Work Programming and Budget and Planning Committee) that discussed local level operations; and/or I have interacted with other local level financial management staff regarding facility budget issues (i.e., coordination of reporting to regional office and corrective action needed) that involved other areas such as accounting, procurement and warehousing. None of the above. 3 The Budget Analyst prepares budget reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and wellbeing. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided written updates on the status of projects to supervisors; and/or I have prepared basic/standard memoranda concerning funds availability for institution cost centers; and/or I have prepared recurring monthly and quarterly budget reports for financial management staff. I have drafted standard memos to request, remove or reallocate funds; and/or I have prepared informational memorandum on required local budgeting procedures within the region or institution; and/or I have documented and prepared meeting minutes for the executive staff signature related to local level budget meetings; and/or I have prepared budget related reports (fund status) and other types of financial correspondence to facility department heads/cost center managers. I have revised memorandums and charts for internal use; and/or I have responded to email requests regarding funds availability from local cost center managers; and/or I have updated the calendar to include scheduled meetings and dates for financial projects and reports; and/or I have prepared a weekly status report for internal use. None of the above. 4 The Budget Analyst analyzes, draws conclusions, and makes recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined relevant budget data from computer reports for field offices; and/or I have resolved minor/routine discrepancies in financial reports; and/or I have coordinated required corrective action to resolve discrepancies with regional office and local level financial management staff (i.e., accounting and procurement) by properly presenting the data and analysis that indicates the errors involved. I have determined relevant budget data from computer reports for field/local offices; and/or I have determined minor buying discrepancies in reports; and/or I have identified improper spending trends for local program areas and recommended corrective action. I have analyzed and identified items such as budget variances, miscoding in cost centers and unauthorized obligations; and/or I have monitored local level operating plan and adjustments to financial plan; and/or I have notified supervisors and/or cost center managers when obligations exceeded quarterly allotments. None of the above. 5 The Budget Analyst is knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed financial system reports to ensure plans balanced; and/or I have ensured annual external year-end reports were completed by established scheduled dates; and/or I have assisted with archiving reports as required by office protocols. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level cost center manager and fund control training classes to new department heads/cost center managers. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have maintained financial information/records for income and expenses; and/or I have gathered information to prepare quarterly and annual financial reports. None of the above. 6 The Budget Analyst uses a variety of procedures, policies, and regulations to determine the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and produced routine budget reports according to mandates or agency guidelines; and/or I have referenced various financial management User’s Guides to process position/financial allotment data; and/or I have used allotment logs or automated systems to determine if allotments were processed. I have assisted Cost Center Managers with balancing their fund control records; and/or I have assisted other financial management staff with research to determine which financial accounts are out of balance; and/or I have researched and identified discrepancies with local level budget data under direction of supervisor. I have completed all required local level monthly, quarterly and semi-annual budget reports as outlined in the Agency policy and/or required by the regional office; and/or I have provided assistance to institution program managers regarding preparation of budget materials (annual budget requests/quarterly requirements) as outlined by policy; and/or I have made routine determinations to ensure position ceilings were not exceeded. None of the above. 7 The Budget Analyst gathers and analyzes financial data from automated financial systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted the appropriate source when the financial management system experienced problems; and/or I have used budget printouts as source documents for preparing routine financial reports; and/or I have keyed budget data to produce reports; and/or I have maintained fund control systems for region/division/institution. I have notified supervisors of financial management system problems; and/or I have printed and retrieved basic financial reports from an automated financial management system; and/or I have operated fund control programs for local level departments/cost centers. I have validated financial data processed by others for accuracy in an automated system; and/or I have utilized software programs involving use of spreadsheets; and/or I have retrieved information from a financial management system to complete assigned project. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Budget Analyst interacts with management officials and other agency staff by providing financial advice and guidance, as well as making presentations on budget related issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have answered questions from Cost Center Managers regarding availability of funds; and/or I have interacted with lower level subordinates to provide financial management guidance; and/or I have provided status of projects/assignments to supervisor during recurring departmental meetings. I have answered questions regarding local budget issues and departmental funding status data; and/or I have attended and participated in routine monthly/quarterly local level budget meetings (Salary Subcommittee, Work Programming, and Budget and Planning Committee) that discussed local level operations; and/or I have interacted with other local level financial management staff regarding facility budget issues (i.e., coordination of reporting to regional office and corrective action needed) that involved other areas such as accounting, procurement and warehousing. I have resolved or clarified budget issues with local and regional office staff; and/or I have answered questions from the department heads (cost center managers) and local executive staff on budget issues; and/or I have worked with local program managers in the development and execution of budgets for regional or field operations. None of the above. 3 The Budget Analyst prepares budget reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the agency&rsquo;s financial integrity and well being. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed and commented on operational memorandums and change notices on budget issues; and/or I have prepared correspondence for Regional Director and/or local executive staff regarding budget matters; and/or I have provided formal direction to local cost center managers regarding the preparation of annual budget submissions; and/or I have coordinated the facility’s Annual Budget Request for submission to the Regional Office to include required justification and detailed explanation of data analysis to support the funding level requested. I have drafted standard memos to request, remove, or reallocate funds; and/or I have prepared informational memorandum on required local budgeting procedures within the region or institution; and/or I have documented and prepared meeting minutes for the executive staff signature related to local level budget meetings; and/or I have prepared budget related reports (fund status) and other types of financial correspondence to facility department heads/cost center managers. I have provided written updates on the status of projects to supervisors; and/or I have prepared basic/standard memoranda concerning funds availability for institution cost centers; and/or I have prepared recurring monthly and quarterly budget reports for financial management staff. None of the above. 4 The Budget Analyst analyzes, draws conclusions, and makes recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and identified items such as budget variances, mis-coding in cost centers, and unauthorized obligations; and/or I have monitored local level operating plan and adjustments to financial plan; and/or I have notified supervisors and/or cost center managers when obligations exceeded quarterly allotments. I have identified unusual obligation trends, patterns or inconsistent rates in relationship to prior year history and investigated and reported inconsistent spending patterns; and/or I have conducted analysis and recommended redirection of existing resources to provide for unforeseen events based on analysis of data (current spending rates and projected requirements related to new initiatives); and/or I have prepared funding requests to regional office with data analysis/program initiatives that provided justification to support additional resources required. I have determined relevant budget data from computer reports for field offices; and/or I have resolved minor/routine discrepancies in financial reports; and/or I have coordinated required corrective action to resolve discrepancies with regional office and local level financial management staff (i.e., accounting and procurement) by properly presenting the data and analysis that indicates the errors involved. None of the above. 5 The Budget Analyst is knowledgeable of budget principles, theories, and techniques in order to prepare, analyze, and present budget information. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level established policies are followed; and/or I have conducted local level cost center manager and fund control training classes to new department heads/cost center managers. I have organized budget data for quarterly/annual budget submissions; and/or I have maintained financial information/records for income and expenses; and/or I have gathered information to prepare quarterly and annual financial reports. I have restructured budget transactions to determine errors and omissions; and/or I have compared the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) - accounting data to FMIS-Distributed Budget Module (DBM) data to ensure financial data is accurate; and/or I have developed budgets consistent with agency guidelines at the regional office or local level (not national/agency level). None of the above. 6 The Budget Analyst uses a variety of procedures, policies, and regulations to determine the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used the agency policy to determine reporting requirements; and/or I have provided guidance to regional office staff and/or institution executive staff on the proper use of the Agency Appropriations (what is allowable to be purchased with appropriated funds); and/or I have conducted research as requested by executive staff (region or institution level) regarding unusual situations related to use of budgetary resources (purpose/time/amount). I have identified and produced routine budget reports according to mandates or agency guidelines; and/or I have referenced various financial management User’s Guides to process position/financial allotment data; and/or I have used allotment logs or automated system to determine if allotments were processed. I have completed all required local level monthly, quarterly and semi-annual budget reports as outlined in the Agency policy and/or required by the regional office; and/or I have provided assistance to institution program managers regarding preparation of budget materials (annual budget requests/quarterly requirements) as outlined by policy; and/or I have made routine determinations to ensure position ceilings were not exceeded. None of the above. 7 The Budget Analyst gathers and analyzes financial data from automated financial systems. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted the appropriate source when the financial management system experienced problems; and/or I have used budget printouts as source documents for preparing routine financial reports; and/or I have keyed budget data to produce reports; and/or I have maintained fund control systems for region/division/institution. I have changed variables on existing programs to produce special reports; and/or I have used commercial spreadsheet programs to report budget data in another format; and/or I have used agency specific financial management programs to research financial data for a budget issue. I have notified supervisor of financial management system problems; and/or I have printed and retrieved basic financial reports from an automated financial management system; and/or I have operated fund control programs for local level departments/cost centers. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).