Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-15 - Choose the answer that best describes your experience.&nbsp; Candidates must have one (1) year of specialized experience at least equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service. Non-government experience should be of similar complexity. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service or equivalent. Examples of specialized experience include: Leading the vision, strategy, and execution of data science work. Oversee work applying data science methods, principles, or tools such as modeling techniques, data visualization, statistical analysis, and data governance. Planning, organizing, and leading team planning efforts that align work with organizational priorities that reflect the consensus of the organization. Consistently validate planning with key stakeholders to communicate progress and embrace new requirements. Partnering with stakeholders and customers to identify needs and deliver value. As appropriate, identifies approaches to pilot novel solutions to meet customers' latent and manifested needs, AND Leading a team of experts in a technical field. I do not possess the experience described above. 2 In addition to the specialized experience requirements for the grade to which you are applying, you must also meet additional education requirements for Data Scientist (GS-1560) positions. Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with these requirements.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an accredited college or university in one of the following majors: mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or a field directly related to the position. I have a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. I do not meet either of the above responses. 3 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).