Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Business Manager interacts with management officials and staff by providing financial advice and guidance, as well as, giving clear and convincing presentations on financial related issues. In addition, the incumbent interacts with personnel of other government agencies and the general public in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have resolved complex problems in program management and reporting requirements to ensure a smooth running, efficient and effective accounting system; and/or I have provided expert advice on accounting applications and impact of new legislation; and/or I have maintained liaison with operating and management officials to establish their needs for financial data; and/or I have resolved or clarified non-routine obligation and payment issues within the agency; and/or I have participated in decision-making sessions with operating program managers; and/or I have advised Program Managers on resolving automated accounting/budget data problems; and/or I have worked with headquarters Program Managers in the development and execution of accounting related operations; and/or I have served as management consultant and advisor on obligation/payment and program consideration; and/or I have facilitated budget and accounting meetings. I have provided status of Financial Management Information System (FMIS), or comparable automated financial system to others when the system experienced problems; and/or I have provided routine information to Program Managers about availability or status of obligated funds; and/or I have provided technical guidance to staff on routine accounting issues; and/or I have worked with individual/local Cost Center Managers (Regional Administrators and Program Managers) on local obligation/payment issues; and/or I have participated in section level meetings related to budget or accounting issues. I have advised institution Executive Staff and department heads on accounting related issues; and/or I have served as a chairperson on a special workgroup/project; and/or I have given presentations at local institution budget and/or accounting strategic meetings. None of the above. 5 The Business Manager oversees as well as participates in the preparation of financial reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the financial integrity and well-being. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed obligation estimates and justifications which were utilized by management to request adjustment of obligated funding; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding technical report; and/or I have written local policies or institution supplements regarding a financial procedure; and/or I have compiled statistical reports which included interpretations from upper management. I have prepared operational memorandums related to oversight findings, (i.e., Office of Inspector General Audit findings, Central Office inquiries); and/or I have prepared correspondence to administrators regarding obligations status; and/or I have prepared reports to the Central Office Administration Division status of financial resources; and/or I have developed presentations to aid management in understanding and analyzing the impact of financial decisions; and/or I have assisted with the development of and the conducting of financial training for Central Office or bureau-wide staff; and/or I have provided recommendations to management officials on various issues to include work strategies, goals, policy directives; and/or I have developed financial statement policy that affects the agency/organization; and/or I have assisted in preparing narratives to justify branch budget submissions. I have prepared standard memos to remove or reallocate obligations; and/or I have composed informational memorandum on required budgeting and accounting procedures; and/or I have developed lesson plans for Financial Management Training; and/or I have developed guidance addressing audit issues to resolve. None of the above. 6 The Business Manager analyzes, draws conclusions, and/or makes recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. Plans, administers, and monitors expenditures to ensure cost effective support of programs and policies; assesses financial condition of an organization. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in testing and implementing major and key segments of accounting and financial systems and procedures as required by the agency in accordance with General Accounting Office (GAO) principles and standards; and/or I have ensured payments were made in accordance with the Prompt Payment Act; and/or I have processed accounts payable according to regulations; and/or I have reviewed government accounting reports for accuracy. I have completed income statements, cash flow, and owner’s equity sheet; and/or I have reconciled accounts; and/or I have made payments according to company policy; and/or I have balanced bank report; and/or I have prepared financial reports. I have supplied accounting data for budget requests; and/or I have reviewed Contracting Officer Representative (COR) reports and/or other financial reports to reconcile and balance a program budget; and/or I have detected errors on proof checks and provided guidance on corrective action; and/or I have implemented a program to detect errors in obligations; and/or I have evaluated adequacy of system design and establish ways to use or modify systems to satisfy any new informational or reporting requirements; and/or I have resolved financial discrepancies; and/or I have provided financial consultation to other program areas; and/or I have monitored and ensured proper disbursement of building and facility (B&F) funds; and/or I have ensured salary and expense (S&E) appropriation was used appropriately; and/or I have prepared specialized financial reports at the request of management; and/or I have analyzed and resolved complex and/or controversial accounting or travel problems. None of the above. 7 The Business Manager must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught formal classes to staff related to factory operations; and/or I have reorganized staff duties, within a section or department, to effectively utilize individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have provided training and technical financial assistance to agency and grantee personnel through communication using training sessions and conferences. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have given subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within a correctional frame of reference. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate’s job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate(s); and/or I have communicated applicable information/updates to subordinates. None of the above. 8 The Business Manager knows the organization&rsquo;s mission and functions, and how its social, political, and technological systems work and operates effectively within them; this includes the programs, policies, procedures, rules and regulations of the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed new procedures and coordinated staff in completing projects; and/or I have worked directly with financial leadership and provided monthly accruals; and/or I have prepared or reviewed payment vouchers; and/or I have managed accounts payable and receivables. I have interpreted accounting policies, such as the areas of Prompt Payment and Debt Management, to ensure appropriate implementation and continued compliance; and/or I have resolved complex and/or controversial accounting problems through proper interpretation and application of accounting policies and procedures; and/or I have interpreted and applied the bureau, department, and travel regulations to ensure proper settlement of temporary duty and permanent change of duty station travel claims; and/or I have performed prompt payment quality control reviews; and/or I have performed draft compliance reviews; and/or I have participated in financial management program reviews; and/or I have prepared lesson plans and conducted the bureau accounting or travel training; and/or I have resolved debt management problems; and/or I have prepared/certified travel claims for temporary and/or permanent change of duty station. I have maintained general ledgers; and/or I have prepared financial reports; and/or I have processed accounts payable and receivables; and/or I have reconciled accounts and bank statements. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).