Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services.** Worked well and cooperated with others, including those holding divergent and/or opposing views and goals. Established and fostered effective working relationships and information networks with business and industry associations and stakeholders at all levels. This included the ability to serve as a liaison with managers and staff to provide consultation and guidance for planning and program performance assessment. Answer to this question is required Built and maintained professional relationships with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders inside and outside the organization. Led or played a key role in conducting briefings, presentations and technology information for managers, staff and individuals with disabilities. Served as a liaison for an agency/organization to provide consultation and guidance. Built and maintained professional relationships with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders, inside and outside the organization. Led or played a key role in conducting briefings and presentations for managers and staff. Served as a liaison for an agency/organization to provide consultation and guidance. Built and maintained professional relationships with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders inside and outside the organization. Assisted in conducting briefings and presentations for managers and staff. Served as a liaison for an agency/organization to provide consultation and guidance to others. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to Provide Program Policy Advice and Oversight in Reading Disability and Low Vision Services.** Served as a senior advisor on policy matters related to programs and services supporting individuals with reading disabilities and low vision. Provided authoritative guidance on complex and evolving issues affecting accessibility, literacy services, assistive technology, and equitable access to information resources. Answer to this question is required Served as the principal advisor to senior leadership and officials at multiple organizational levels on ALL matters related to reading disability and low vision programming, including policy development, compliance oversight, accessibility standards, assistive technology integration, and service delivery models. Conceived, developed, planned, and implemented comprehensive policies and national guidelines affecting programs serving individuals with reading disabilities and low vision. Exercised independent judgment in resolving ambiguous or unprecedented policy issues and ensured consistent interpretation across partner networks and stakeholders. Served as a co-manager to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on matters related to special events management. Developed, planned, and implemented policies and operational guidance affecting literacy access and low vision services. Provided authoritative recommendations to leadership regarding program improvements and oversight mechanisms. Served in a co-lead or deputy capacity advising senior management on policy matters related to reading disability and low vision services. Contributed to the development and implementation of policies and guidance affecting program operations and supported oversight efforts to ensure alignment with accessibility requirements and organizational goals. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of and experience in a disability-related field, especially disabilities related to reading and low vision disabilities.** Demonstrates knowledge of and experience with disabilities issues, especially those concerning reading and low vision disabilities, including: 1) history of disabilities and disability movements in the United States; 2) legislation related disabilities in the United States; 3) international issues and treatises related to disabilities; 4) programs and resources available to individuals with disabilities in the United States; 5) assistive technology available to persons with disabilities; 6) consumer activism around disabilities issues, including blind consumer groups; 7) resources for reading materials; 8) education and training of persons with disabilities; 9) library services for persons with disabilities; and 10) trends in mainstream technologies as they related to persons with disabilities. Answer to this question is required In-depth knowledge and/or experience in SEVEN (7) or more of the above fields. In-depth knowledge and/or experience in FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above fields. Knowledge and/or experience in AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above fields. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to analyze problems and make recommendations. Researched and analyzed issues related to programs or processes. This included determining pertinent issues and developing recommendations for improved program effectiveness and efficiency. Answer to this question is required AS A PRIMARY JOB RESPONSIBILITY, independently and routinely analyzed policies, strategies, programs, or processes, and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. AS A PRIMARY JOB RESPONSIBILITY, routinely analyzed programs, processes, or procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This included the identification of issues/problems/situations, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations based on research. REGULARLY analyzed programs, processes, or procedures and recommended improvements or solutions. This analysis included the identification of issues/problems/situations and potential solutions and making recommendations for improvement. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Communicated in writing by producing complex and specialized documents in the following areas:&nbsp; 1) training curricula, 2) program proposals, 3) analysis/reports, 4) memoranda, 5) strategic or annual planning documents, 6) project plans, and 7) policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents. These documents were used to communicate, change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant and controversial organization-wide issues. As a principal author, independently wrote AT LEAST 5 of the above including #1 through #4 of the above documents. These documents were used to communicate, change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant and controversial issues. As a principal author or collaborator, independently wrote documents that included #1 through #4 of the above documents. These documents were used to communicate information to diverse audiences. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).