Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge and/or experience with economic sanctions-related licensing: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with economic sanctions-related licensing. I have education or training in economic sanctions-related licensing, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in economic sanctions-related licensing and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently analyzed and coordinated economic sanctions-related licensing as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled in analyzing and coordinating economic sanctions-related licensing. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge of, or experience with, economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls. I have education or training in economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently analyzed economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled in analyzing economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Please select the response that BEST describes your level of experience with economic sanctions regulations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with economic sanctions regulations. I have education or training in economic sanctions regulations, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in economic sanctions regulations and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently analyzed economic sanctions regulations and coordinated sanctions-related licensing as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled in analyzing economic sanctions regulations. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your background in the analysis of U.S. legislation that imposes economic sanctions on foreign countries? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in the performance of this task. I have education, or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your background in the coordination of economic sanctions policy across government agencies? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in the performance of this task. I have education, or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge and/or experience with economic sanctions-related licensing: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with economic sanctions-related licensing. I have education or training in economic sanctions-related licensing, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in economic sanctions-related licensing and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently analyzed and coordinated economic sanctions-related licensing as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled in analyzing and coordinating economic sanctions-related licensing. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 6 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge of, or experience with, economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls. I have education or training in economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently analyzed economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled in analyzing economic sanctions policy, export licenses and/or other export controls. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Please select the response that BEST describes your level of experience with economic sanctions regulations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with economic sanctions regulations. I have education or training in economic sanctions regulations, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education or training in economic sanctions regulations and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently analyzed economic sanctions regulations and coordinated sanctions-related licensing as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled in analyzing economic sanctions regulations. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your background in the analysis of U.S. legislation that imposes economic sanctions on foreign countries? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in the performance of this task. I have education, or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your background in the coordination of economic sanctions policy across government agencies? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in the performance of this task. I have education, or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.