Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp;He/she communicates with senior executives throughout the Bureau of Prisons on First Step Act (FSA) programs, as well as with others in the U.S. District Courts, U.S. Probation Offices, state agencies and institutions, U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. Marshals Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and various other agencies and divisions of the Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding a wide-range of First Step Act (FSA) related activities.&nbsp;The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, represents the Bureau of Prisons on work groups related to the First Step Act (FSA) and inmate re-entry initiatives.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chaired a work group which included members of upper management/executive staff in other agencies tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization-wide re-entry programs; and/or I have represented agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have gave interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal, state or local agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area. I have participated on a work group which included members of senior executives in the Bureau of Prisons or other agencies regarding re-entry initiatives; and/or I have assisted in representing an agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have gave formal presentations to senior executives/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding sensitive issues; and/or I have facilitated training sessions/presentations for senior executive employees. I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have facilitated a formal training session/presentation to co-workers and peers; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Warden/Chief Executive Officer and provided recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 5 The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, develops policy for programs in correctional facilities. He/she establishes and issues policy guidance, operational standards, and implementation instructions related to the First Step Act (FSA), ensuring consistency and legal compliance. The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, as the information may impact national programs.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented findings as a participant of an external audit; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations Memorandums; and/or I have developed local training initiatives. I have authored an article which was published in a national publication; and/or I have developed national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have designed and implemented a needs assessment plan for agency/organization staffing levels; and/or I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact; and/or I have developed national training initiatives. I have written strategic plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to an external audit concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared position paper justifying decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed operational standards/implementation instructions explaining First Step Act (FSA) laws or regulations. None of the above. 6 The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, directly supervises staff, and provides leadership and performance management. He/she also provides strategic direction for subordinate offices responsible for First Step Act (FSA) policy and training. The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plans; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have conducted training for the Mentoring Program for all supervisors in the department/section. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP). I have developed organizational structure and defined staffing requirements for optimal performance of organization; and/or I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization; and/or I have provided leadership training to staff at a national level. None of the above. 7 The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, possesses expert knowledge of federal correctional operations, inmate management, custody and release processes, and institutional programming. He/she possesses a thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of the Bureau of Prisons. The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, possesses knowledge of the variety of institutions in the Bureau of Prisons, the various inmate populations and problems presented by the various combinations to direct and evaluate operating programs in the field. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed initiatives that reflected correctional agency/organization values; and/or I have reviewed reports to ensure compliance with policy and standards for internal and external audits; and/or I have participated on a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired an internal/external audit and certified compliance. I have reviewed program areas with agency program managers and recommended changes in policies/program directions in order to strengthen controls/correct deficiencies, and/or improve operational effectiveness; and/or I have directed comprehensive reviews of division operations and made recommendations to realign responsibilities; and/or I have chaired a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have developed pilot projects regarding operational or security issues; and/or I have performed duties as a supervisor/manager at more than one security level institution; and/or I have performed duties as an Administrator in the Central or Regional Office involved with policy development or oversight of institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. None of the above. 8 The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, plans, directs and evaluates the Bureau of Prisons nationwide implementation of First Step Act (FSA) programs, policies and operational initiatives. He/she is responsible for the planning, justification, execution and oversight of the Bureau of Prisons First Step Act (FSA) budget and contractual services. The Administrator, First Step Act Branch, provides Bureau-wide oversight of First Step Act (FSA) staffing and position management, including workforce planning, position utilization and organizational alignment to meet statutory and workload requirements. He/she conducts program analysis and directs corrective actions or program improvements.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used available automated systems to pull statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy or procedures to ensure compliance with national policy, recommending changes or updates as necessary; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency/organization practices that impacted significant programs on a national level; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate programming procedures; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations. I have implemented changes in agency/organization practices that impacted significant programs on a national level; and/or I have developed and modified agency/organizational practices that impacted significant programs on a national level based on gathered and evaluative data; and/or I have coordinated development of new programs through other agencies and professional organizations; and/or I have formulated national policy on First Step Act (FSA) programs or initiatives. None of the above. 9 The Administrator demonstrates a high level of technical competence in statutory interpretation, data-driven program implementation, and interagency coordination. This role requires familiarity with First Step Act (FSA) provisions, including time credit calculations, evidence-based recidivism reduction programs, and case management systems, as well as the ability to translate policy into operational practices across institutions. He/she must be adept at analyzing complex inmate data, ensuring compliance with evolving legal requirements, and leading cross-functional teams to implement reforms consistently and accurately. Strong technical communication skills are also essential to guide staff, brief executive leadership, and interface with oversight bodies. He/she provides oversight of FSA policy interpretation, calculation standards, application consistency, and resolution of complex statutory issues. From the choices below, please select the one that describes your experience. I have demonstrated expert-level proficiency in First Step Act (FSA) time credit calculation systems, including oversight of automated tracking tools and validation of large-scale data outputs; and/or I have led the design and implementation of national policy guidance and translated statutory and regulatory requirements into operational procedures across multiple facilities; and/or I have directed advanced data analytics initiatives to evaluate program effectiveness, ensuring compliance, and briefed executive leadership with actionable insights; and/or I have realigned policy/guidelines to support re-entry initiatives consistent with federal statutes. I have applied in-depth knowledge of First Step Act (FSA) provisions to oversee institution-level program implementation and ensured accurate application of time credit; and/or I have conducted audits and reviews of case management and tracking systems to identify discrepancies and recommended corrective actions; and/or I have coordinated with internal stakeholders (i.e., Designation and Sentence Computation Center (DSCC), Information Technology (IT), legal) to support consistent policy application and resolve complex technical or procedural issues; and/or I have provided guidance to staff regarding policy/guidelines on re-entry initiatives consistent with federal statues; and/or I have directed the development of re-entry training for staff and inmates; and/or I have managed re-entry needs assessment process and development. I have demonstrated working knowledge of First Step Act (FSA) requirements, including eligibility criteria and basic time credit calculation; and/or I have utilized established systems to track inmate participation in recidivism reduction programs and verify data accuracy; and/or I have supported implementation efforts by assisting with staff training, data entry validation, and responding to routine technical inquiries; and/or I have researched and interpreted technical policies to resolve technical issues or management concerns; and/or I have authored and implemented a local Institution Supplement to outline procedures associated with a new requirement, regulation or law; and/or I have provided input for a management assessment of a correctional program specialty area; and/or I have implemented procedures to ensure consistent compliance with governing regulations, changes in procedures or laws; and/or I have provided legal declarations for Courts regarding sentence computation issues None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).