Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to plan, organize and coordinate projects and programs for a cultural heritage institution .** Planned and executed complex programs or projects targeting national reach which may have included the following: 1) identifying opportunities for feasible projects and programs to accomplish organizational mission, proposing concepts persuasively to management and peers; 2) determining institutional mechanisms for execution (e.g., budget requests, contracts, policies and procedures; 3) working with internal and external partners to execute the project or program; 4) revising plan and principles as new information emerges; 5) keeping stakeholders and management informed at all stages of the project; and 6) analyzing the results of the activity as it relates to short and long-term goals. Answer to this question is required Frequently and independently planned ALL of the tasks listed above for an agency/organization. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Frequently and independently planned FIVE of the tasks listed above for an agency/organization. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Frequently and independently planned FOUR of the tasks listed above for an agency/organization. Recommended proposals, and assisted with implementing plans to improve program effectiveness. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to build relationships with diverse external organizations and internal stakeholders to accomplish organizational goals .** Built relationships with individuals, groups, and organizations for mutual benefit, including: 1) researched and identified potential partnership opportunities to management; 2) conducted outreach activities (e.g., planned a meeting, organized a conference, or connected subject matter experts) that resulted in organizational change; 3) spoke with fluency about organizational initiatives and priorities authoritatively and spontaneously; and 4) made use of a network of contacts to seize an opportunity or overcome challenges to meeting an organizational goal. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently planned, organized and coordinated complex outreach activities involving high ranking officials of large or influential organizations, senior managers, co-workers, and professional colleagues in the industry. This includes applying experience successfully building relationships for mutual benefit in ALL of the categories listed above. As a primary job responsibility, independently planned, organized and coordinated complex outreach activities involving key stakeholders in other organizations, senior managers, co-workers, and professional colleagues in the industry. This includes successfully building relationships for mutual benefit in ALL of the categories listed above. As a primary job responsibility, planned, organized and coordinated complex outreach activities involving key stakeholders in other organizations. This includes building relationships for mutual benefit in THREE of the categories listed above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions .** Developed, planned, analyzed, and collaboratively implemented strategies needed to coordinate and resolve organizational and operational issues and problems. Answer to this question is required Analyzed complex administrative and /or program issues in an organization. Researched and analyzed problems, issues and program requirements. Developed solutions and collaboratively implemented recommendations for modifications or improvements to resolve the issues and problems. Developed and/or modified program evaluation strategies and methods. Ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were developed and appropriately applied. Analyzed administrative and /or program issues in an organization. Researched and analyzed problems, issues and program requirements. Collaboratively implemented recommendations for modifications or improvements to resolve the issues and problems. Modified program evaluation strategies and methods. Ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. Worked with others to analyze administrative and/or program issues in an organization, recommended solutions to problems and assisted with program evaluation strategies/methods. Ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to research, analyze, and gather requirements, and perform analytical studies .** Researched, analyzed, and gathered requirements and applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to studies. Developed recommendations and presented proposals for program improvements. Answer to this question is required Independently researched, gathered, and analyzed program components and requirements. Conducted management-related studies to evaluate the effectiveness of one or more program(s). Prepared reports analyzing requirements and operations. Results of analysis were used for managerial decision-making regarding the program(s). With minimal supervision researched, gathered, and analyzed program components and requirements. Conducted management-related studies with assistance to evaluate the effectiveness of the program and analyzed technical information and assessed data to support recommendations. Prepared reports for review, analyzing requirements and operations. With guidance from senior co-workers or others, researched, gathered and analyzed program components and requirements. Conducted management-related studies with assistance to evaluate the effectiveness of the program and analyzed technical information and assessed data to support recommendations. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate and understandable work products to management, staff, and others, including: 1) policies and procedures, 2) program proposals, 3 memos and correspondence, 4) statements of work, 5) planning documents,6) presentations, to support the organization&rsquo;s objectives, 7) budget justifications, and 8) reports/documents providing assessments/analysis and statistics of operational programs. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote ALL of the above documents to support administrative program functions. Independently wrote SIX or SEVEN of the above documents to support administrative program functions. Independently wrote FIVE of the above documents to support administrative program functions. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).