Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education). Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have an LL.M., related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 3 In which of the following development operations areas do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Philanthropic donor research Fundraising database and analytics management Development prospect and pipeline management Philanthropic donor communications Nonprofit financial management of gifts None of the above. 4 How many years of experience do you have in a fundraising/development operations role? Answer to this question is required 1-3 years 4-7 years 8+ years I do not have any experience in this area. 5 Select the statement below that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have worked in a fundraising operations role for a nonprofit I have worked as a fundraiser in a nonprofit and have deep knowledge of development operations I have worked in a development role in a museum or similar arts and culture organization None of the above. 6 &nbsp; What statement(s) best describes your ability to manage a donor prospecting and research process? Answer to this question is required I have worked collaboratively with colleagues to develop research or support donor prospecting plans I routinely create research and prospect plans with little supervision. I have managed a team responsible for donor prospecting and research I do not have the training or skills to perform this task. 7 How would you describe your experience as it relates to supporting donor prospecting? Answer to this question is required I have supported a fundraiser or development/advancement team in the development of a donor portfolio or pipeline I have created or managed a process for donor portfolio or pipeline management I have limited experience with donor prospecting I do not have experience in this area. 8 How would you describe your experience as it relates to donor communications? Answer to this question is required Experience preparing a proposal or solicitation materials to donors Experience interacting with donors in-person at meetings or events Experience developing digital or print materials for a fundraiser or development team None of the above. 9 How would you describe your experience with CRM systems such as Raiser&rsquo;s edge, Tessitura, Salesforce, or other databases? Answer to this question is required Frequent user for data entry Advanced data entry and reporting Advanced data entry, reporting, and management of analytics projects Implemented new CRM system or led a significant upgrade or transition for development/advancement function None of the above. 10 Are you experienced in project management, including the use of project management tools such as Asana or Wrike? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Are you familiar with basic accounting principles as it relates to nonprofit gift acceptance and processing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which statement best describes your people management experience: Answer to this question is required I do not have any direct experience as a supervisor I have experience directing the work of others who did not report to me, but I was responsible for project outcomes within a development operations role or as a fundraiser I have direct experience as a supervisor of at least one direct report within a development function I have experience managing a team of development operations staff or fundraisers View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.