Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to communicate in English and at least one other language required by the Germanic and Slavic Division with preference for Baltic, Greek, Hungarian, Scandinavian or Slavic languages.** Communicated professional or technical information in English and one other language required by the Germanic and Slavic Division with preference for Baltic, Greek, Hungarian, Scandinavian, or Slavic languages. Communication activities include reading, writing, and speaking at a level suffiicient to support collection processing and management work. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience communicating in English and one other language required by the Germanic and Slavic Division with preference for Baltic, Greek, Hungarian, Scandinavian, or Slavic languages in a professional environment with a working knowledge OR fluency and familiarity of a native speaker. Communication activities include reading, writing, and speaking in performing work. Has some experience communicating in English and one other language required by the Germanic and Slavic Division with a preference for Baltic, Greek, Hungarian, Scandinavian or Slavic languages in a professional environment with a working knowledge OR fluency and familiarity of a native speaker. Communication activities include reading, writing, and speaking in performing work. Has some experience and/or college level competency communicating in English and one other language required by the Germanic and Slavic Division with a preference for Baltic, Greek, Hungarian, Scandinavian or Slavic languages. Communication activities include reading, writing, and speaking. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of library acquisitions and/or cataloging rules, practices, and procedures.** Used knowledge of library acquisitions and cataloging rules, practices, and procedures to acquire library collections in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated knowledge and experience following library acquisitions and/or cataloging rules, practices and procedures, as well as a broad knowledge of a full range of acquisitions/cataloging activities, such as the following: created cataloging records following RDA, LCSH, LCC rules, acquired resources following fiscal guidelines, recommended changes to policies and procedures; and demonstrated experience in resolving challenging acquisitions and/or cataloging problems or issues, among other related activities. Demonstrated experience in library acquisitions and/or cataloging rules, practices and procedures, as well as demonstrated experience in resolving routine acquisitions and/or cataloging problems or issues. Demonstrated knowledge or college-level proficiency in library acquisitions and/or cataloging rules, practices and procedures. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to organize, analyze, and interpret data related to acquiring and/or cataloging library materials.** Organized, analyzed, and interpreted data to acquire and/or catalog library materials. Resolved issues related to these assignments.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Independently organized and analyzed information and materials, as well as interpreted and processed data to ensure accessibility and compliance with established protocols. Resolved issues related to these assignments. With minimal supervision, organized information and materials, as well as interpreted and processed data to ensure accessibility and compliance with established protocols. Resolved problems and communicated results. Under close supervision, organized and materials and/or interpreted and processed data to maintain accessibility and compliance with established protocols. Resolved problems and communicated results. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies. Used integrated library systems and library technology to perform library functions in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated ability to use integrated library systems and technologies to perform library functions including acquisitions AND cataloging. Demonstrated ability to use integrated library systems and technologies to perform library functions including acquisitions OR cataloging. Demonstrated knowledge and/or college-level proficiency related to an integrated library systems and/technologies to perform library functions. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Produced various written documents, including: 1) reports; 2) descriptive memoranda or transmittals; 3) compilations and syntheses of information and data; 4) professional email correspondence; 5) reference responses; 6) presentations, 7) professional publications; and 8) technical documents. Please provide the particulars in which you produced these documents. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision wrote ALL of the above documents. In doing so, applied professional techniques including the use of style and citation guides; the application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage; and tailored the information to match the technical level of the audience. Independently, with minimal supervision or collaboratively, wrote FOUR (4) to SEVEN (7) of the above documents. In doing so, applied professional techniques including the use of style and citation guides; the application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage; and tailored the information to match the technical level of the audience. Wrote AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above documents for review by a supervisor or higher graded specialist. In doing so, applied professional techniques including the use of style and citation guides; the application of correct grammar, punctuation and word usage; and tailored the information to match the technical level of the audience. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation and liaison services. Provided consultation or performed liaison duties to help solve technical problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and national and/or international partners, and provided specialized and/or technical information in the fields of library acquisitions and/or cataloging. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and provided specialized or technical information in the fields of library acquisitions and/or cataloging. Developed and maintained relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds and cultures, communicating specialized or technical information in a professional and/or an academic setting. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).