Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Holocaust Memorial Museum United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Museum Education Research History Remembrance Genocide Support Toggle navigation Museum Education Research History Remembrance Genocide Support Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 This position requires applicants to meet a Basic Education Requirement in addition to at least one (1) year of specialized experience in order to be found minimally qualified. Please select the description below that best describes your education/experience. If you select A or B, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in accounting, or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.) I have a combination of education and experience which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provides professional accounting knowledge as listed in the Qualifications Section of the Job Announcement. I do not meet the basic education requirements as described above. 7 Select ONE statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant (Staff) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent. I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level that clearly demonstrates knowledge, skills and abilities related to the following experience: You must possess 3 out of 4 listed specialized experience: Answer to this question is required Perform reconciliation of accounts to ensure subsystems agree to the General Ledger and/or Treasury balances and prepare journal entries to adjust balances as necessary; prepare all federal financial reporting on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis. Reports include but are not limited to SF 224 Statement of Transactions, Governmentwide Treasury Account Symbol Adjust Trial Balance (GTAS), SF-133 Report on Budget Execution and Budgetary Resources, General Fund, Treasury Report On Receivables (TROR), and other internal financial reports; approves accounts payable payments within federal payment systems (i.e, Secure Payment System (SPS) and International Treasury Services (ITS); processes all Inter-Agency Agreements (IAA) and related payments within federal systems. Prepare and processes journal entries for non-recurring reclassification requests; collaborate with the Financial Systems Analyst and/or Senior Budget Analyst on journal entries to finalize amounts and resolve budget error. My experience is not reflected in the above statement. 8 Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Answer to this question is required Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position. View Vacancy Details This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).