Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 I have one-year specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of the position GS-12 in the federal or private sector, examining , treating and documenting works of art for the purpose of preserving them. Answer to this question is required True False 3 I have a Master&rsquo;s degree in art conservation. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Choose those areas of conservation with which you have at least five (5) years' experience. Answer to this question is required Conservation science Photograph conservation Historic photograph analysis Paper conservation New media art preservation Painting conservation Preventive conservation Book preservation Other areas of conservation not mentioned here None of these 5 Have you had to assess the condition of a medium to large collection of paintings, and recommend treatment priorities as part of a long range conservation program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you, working independently or as part of a larger team, had to assess the condition of a medium to large collection of paintings, and recommend treatment priorities as part of a long range conservation program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you been a member of the American Institute of Conservation, within the past five (5) years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you written treatment proposals regarding conservation treatment of objects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I have been trained in the techniques of measuring the following environmental conditions, appropriate for storage of specific pieces of art. Answer to this question is required Temperature Relative humidity Illumination levels Other material influences None of these factors View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.