Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Environmental Protection Agency About EPA EPA Careers Toggle navigation About EPA EPA Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: To meet the Qualifications Requirements for Criminal Investigator, GS-13, select the option that best describes your experience background: Answer to this question is required I have 1 YEAR OF SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE equivalent to the GS-12 level in or related to the work of THIS POSITION that provided the specific knowledges, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of THIS POSITION. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described above. 2 Choose the answer that best describes your experience: Answer to this question is required I have one year of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service. Examples include: (1) Knowledge and ability to plan, execute, and coordinate complex criminal, civil and administrative fraud investigations; (2) Ability to produce clear, accurate investigative reports and present information logically to stakeholders; (3) Knowledge of relevant Federal fraud statutes, criminal and civil procedures, agency and government regulations, policies, and executive orders; (4) Experience and knowledge in identifying fraud within government programs and operations; and (5) Ability to interpret financial and government records, identify key information, and clearly summarize findings. 2. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Are you Giglio impaired, that is I have been found to have engaged in any misconduct which reflects a lack of truthfulness, bias or integrity, or which otherwise casts doubt on my credibility (including but not limited to findings of falsification, lack of candor, providing false testimony, or mishandling of evidence or records). This includes findings made during a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding or following an administrative investigation.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a valid U.S. Driver's license? (Your Driver's license will be subject to verification prior to employment). Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you successfully completed Federal Law Enforcement Training Center's Criminal Investigator training program (CITP), OR an equivalent and recognized federal law enforcement training program? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Which Criminal Investigator Training Program or Equivalent (FBI Academy, DEA Basic Agent Training, etc.) have you completed? Maximum length of 250 characters. 2.2 I have provided documentation, such as a certificate, of the Criminal Investigator Training Program or Equivalent (FBI Academy, DEA Basic Agent Training, etc.) that I have completed. Yes No No 3 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. &nbsp;NOTE: &nbsp;If you choose not to answer the narrative question(s), you may enter "N/A" as your response. 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Your response must not exceed 200 words. 5 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 6 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal&nbsp;achievements?&nbsp; Please provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 8 For the four essay question responses above, I certify that I used my own words, and did not use&nbsp;a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Please look at the qualification requirements (both experience and/or education) that are stated in this vacancy announcement. Does your resume clearly contain this information in order to determine you are qualified for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you aware that your resume must not exceed 2 pages and that your application status will be changed to ineligible if you do not submit a resume that is 2 pages or less? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 For each position listed on your resume, did you include the position title, company, grade/level (if federal employment), weekly hours worked, and your actual beginning and ending dates of employment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select the response that best describes the rating of record for your most recent performance appraisal: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (or equivalent) or higher Less than Fully Successful (or equivalent) I have never received a performance appraisal. 13 Have you reviewed the vacancy announcement "How to Apply" and required documents section to determine what supplemental material that you must provide? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Where did you learn about this EPA position? Answer to this question is required Job Fair/Career Conference Referral from a Professional Organization Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor Referral from a Current EPA Employee Referral from a Friend or Family Member EPA Internet Site Office of Personnel Management (OPM) USAJOBS Internet Site Referral from a State or Local Government Referral from Another Federal Agency/Employee Twitter Facebook LinkedIn USAJOBS iPhone/iPad Application Handshake Other (w/Branch) 15 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information in this application is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application, or in any document or interview associated, I may be fined or imprisoned, denied employment, or removed and debarred from Federal service. That any information I give may be investigated. By responding No to this item I will not be considered for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above. No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. No, I do not understand the information provided above. View Vacancy Details This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).