Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which items, from the following list of collections documentation practices, identifies duties that you have regularly performed in previous positions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed shelf surveys / inventories I have accurately recorded information using automated systems I have adhered to data standards for collections management I have assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records I have assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records I have independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records I have no experience with collection documentation practices 3 Which of the following computer software applications have you used as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Integrated office software (e.g., Corel office, MS Office). Environmental monitoring software (e.g., Climate Notebook). Document sharing software (e.g., Adobe Acrobat). Database management systems. Digital imaging software. Collections information systems (e.g., EMu, TMS). Internet browsers. Image management programs (e.g., Adobe Photoshop). Other common office software applications. I do not have experience with any common office software applications. 4 Which of the following best represents your level of experience following instructions required to process museum or similar collections? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing such tasks and have provided guidance and supervision to others I have performed such tasks independently and without the review of a supervisor I have performed such tasks under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have had training or education related to such tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have not had experience in performing such tasks 5 Which of the following types of artifacts have you worked with in a museum setting (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic) Drawings, prints and works on paper Photographs Collage or mixed media art objects Film Audio or Video recordings Electronic components Sculpture Installation art Ceramics Glass Wood Metalwork Jewelry Furniture Textiles Costumes Decorative arts Historic artifacts Magazines, newspapers or other periodicals Printed ephemera such as postcards, brochures or product information. Pop culture artifacts such as toys, comics, costumes or other consumer goods. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with temperature and relative humidity requirements for the display of cultural objects? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of conservation requirements for temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects. I am familiar with the conservation requirements for temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects, but do not have experience with them. I have recommended the temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects. I have conducted research to establish the temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects. 7 Which of the following examples reflect your experience handling, storing, and packing museum objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience handling and storing 3-dimensional museum objects. I have experience handling and storing 2-dimensional museum objects including framed art. I have experience handling and storing textiles. I have made storage supports for 3-dimensional museum objects. I have made storage supports for 2-dimensional museum objects. I have packed museum objects for shipment. I have tracked the movement of museum objects using barcode scanners. I have tracked the movement of museum objects with paper records. I have participated in the installation and de-installation of large museum exhibits. I have training or education in storing museum objects. I have training or education in tracking museum objects. I have no experience or training in handling, storing, and packing museum objects. 8 Which of the following tasks have you performed regarding handling objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects for examination. I have crated or uncrated museum objects for transport or storage. I have designed handling museum apparatuses for objects. I have designed museum storage apparatuses for objects. I have handled large museum objects. I have used industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects. I have used common power and hand tools in a museum environment. I have no experience handling museum objects. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a large or varied collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections? (select one) Answer to this question is required I have managed a large or varied collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have managed a small collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have worked as a lead member of a team managing a large or varied management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have no experience managing a collections management program. 10 Select from the following list all handling activities with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Handling museum objects for examination Crating or uncrating museum objects for transport or storage Designing handling museum apparatuses for objects Designing museum storage apparatuses for objects Handling large museum objects Using industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects I have no experience handling museum objects. 11 Which of the following answer(s) describes your experience handling artifacts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving fine art. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving clothing and textiles. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, and preparing for cataloging and photographic materials. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving audiovisual materials I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving archival collections including documents, scrapbooks, manuscripts, and rare books. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, and preparing for cataloging born-digital materials. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving additional types of artifacts (i.e., tools, machines, decorative arts). I have not performed any of the tasks above. 12 Which of the following statements describe the types of work you have performed in a museum environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to a senior Museum Specialist. I have served as lead specialist on a museum-related project. I have supervised packaging, handling, and shipping from storage areas. I have supervised the handling of transfer items. I have overseen the storage and inventory of museum items. I have reviewed and updated museum collections records. I have no experience in performing this task. 13 Which of the following collections physical care tasks have you had experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled objects that vary in size, material, age, weight, structure, and condition while following appropriate preservation practices. I have safely transported objects to and from collection storage areas. I have created accurate object tags and storage unit labels and attached them appropriately. I have assisted with reorganizing collections to properly re-associate objects that had become intermingled with other collections or dispersed throughout storage. I have housed/rehoused objects using proper preservation techniques and materials. I have inspected collection storage areas and objects to determine if there is pest activity. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in collections management work for museum exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in collections management work for museum exhibits. I have moderate experience in collections management work for museum exhibits. I have minimal experience in managing or overseeing collections management work for museum exhibits. I do not have experience managing or overseeing collections management work for exhibits. Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which items, from the following list of collections documentation practices, identifies duties that you have regularly performed in previous positions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed shelf surveys / inventories I have accurately recorded information using automated systems I have adhered to data standards for collections management I have assisted with the resolution of inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records I have independently resolved inventory discrepancies using automated or hard copy records I have assisted with the maintenance of inventory holdings using automated or hard copy records I have independently maintained accurate inventory of holdings using automated or hard copy records I have no experience with collection documentation practices 3 Which of the following computer software applications have you used as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Integrated office software (e.g., Corel office, MS Office). Environmental monitoring software (e.g., Climate Notebook). Document sharing software (e.g., Adobe Acrobat). Database management systems. Digital imaging software. Collections information systems (e.g., EMu, TMS). Internet browsers. Image management programs (e.g., Adobe Photoshop). Other common office software applications. I do not have experience with any common office software applications. 4 Which of the following best represents your level of experience following instructions required to process museum or similar collections? Answer to this question is required I am experienced in performing such tasks and have provided guidance and supervision to others I have performed such tasks independently and without the review of a supervisor I have performed such tasks under the direction of a supervisor or other employee I have had training or education related to such tasks, but I have not performed them on the job I have not had experience in performing such tasks 5 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have NOT performed these job functions. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. 6 Which of the following types of artifacts have you worked with in a museum setting (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic) Drawings, prints and works on paper Photographs Collage or mixed media art objects Film Audio or Video recordings Electronic components Sculpture Installation art Ceramics Glass Wood Metalwork Jewelry Furniture Textiles Costumes Decorative arts Historic artifacts Magazines, newspapers or other periodicals Printed ephemera such as postcards, brochures or product information. Pop culture artifacts such as toys, comics, costumes or other consumer goods. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with temperature and relative humidity requirements for the display of cultural objects? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of conservation requirements for temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects. I am familiar with the conservation requirements for temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects, but do not have experience with them. I have recommended the temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects. I have conducted research to establish the temperature and relative humidity levels for the display of cultural objects. 8 Which of the following examples reflect your experience handling, storing, and packing museum objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience handling and storing 3-dimensional museum objects. I have experience handling and storing 2-dimensional museum objects including framed art. I have experience handling and storing textiles. I have made storage supports for 3-dimensional museum objects. I have made storage supports for 2-dimensional museum objects. I have packed museum objects for shipment. I have tracked the movement of museum objects using barcode scanners. I have tracked the movement of museum objects with paper records. I have participated in the installation and de-installation of large museum exhibits. I have training or education in storing museum objects. I have training or education in tracking museum objects. I have no experience or training in handling, storing, and packing museum objects. 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed regarding handling objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects for examination. I have crated or uncrated museum objects for transport or storage. I have designed handling museum apparatuses for objects. I have designed museum storage apparatuses for objects. I have handled large museum objects. I have used industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects. I have used common power and hand tools in a museum environment. I have no experience handling museum objects. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a large or varied collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections? (select one) Answer to this question is required I have managed a large or varied collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have managed a small collections management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have worked as a lead member of a team managing a large or varied management program requiring the development and administration of operating policy and long-range planning for the physical care and security of historically-significant collections. I have no experience managing a collections management program. 11 Select from the following list all handling activities with which you have experience Answer to this question is required Handling museum objects for examination Crating or uncrating museum objects for transport or storage Designing handling museum apparatuses for objects Designing museum storage apparatuses for objects Handling large museum objects Using industrial material handling equipment (i.e., forklifts) to handle museum objects I have no experience handling museum objects. 12 Which of the following answer(s) describes your experience handling artifacts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving fine art. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving clothing and textiles. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, and preparing for cataloging and photographic materials. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving audiovisual materials I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving archival collections including documents, scrapbooks, manuscripts, and rare books. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, and preparing for cataloging born-digital materials. I have experience in handling, documenting, re-housing, preparing for cataloging, and moving additional types of artifacts (i.e., tools, machines, decorative arts). I have not performed any of the tasks above. 13 Which of the following statements describe the types of work you have performed in a museum environment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to a senior Museum Specialist. I have served as lead specialist on a museum-related project. I have supervised packaging, handling, and shipping from storage areas. I have supervised the handling of transfer items. I have overseen the storage and inventory of museum items. I have reviewed and updated museum collections records. I have no experience in performing this task. 14 Which of the following collections physical care tasks have you had experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have handled objects that vary in size, material, age, weight, structure, and condition while following appropriate preservation practices. I have safely transported objects to and from collection storage areas. I have created accurate object tags and storage unit labels and attached them appropriately. I have assisted with reorganizing collections to properly re-associate objects that had become intermingled with other collections or dispersed throughout storage. I have housed/rehoused objects using proper preservation techniques and materials. I have inspected collection storage areas and objects to determine if there is pest activity. None of the above. 15 Which of the following describes your experiences with oral communication? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience responding to requests for information from the public concerning an organizations programs and services I have experience responding to requests for information from high level officials and key stakeholders. I have experience establishing effective interpersonal relationships in order to accomplish work. I have experience using oral communication skills to encourage public involvement in an organization’s programs and activities. I have experience advising senior staff on the feasibility and status of programs and/or projects. I have experience representing an organization at external events. I do not have any of the experiences described above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in collections management work for museum exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in collections management work for museum exhibits. I have moderate experience in collections management work for museum exhibits. I have minimal experience in managing or overseeing collections management work for museum exhibits. I do not have experience managing or overseeing collections management work for exhibits. 17 Which of the following statements describe your ability to coordinate and complete various technical and administrative museum-related and /or collections assignments and projects simultaneously? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated multi-tasking ability in my current or past job. I have worked on three or more projects and tasks simultaneously. I have worked on two or more projects or tasks simultaneously. I have coordinated simultaneous deadlines. I have successfully balanced completing priorities. I have a clear ability to take direction. I can carry out research assignments. I can complete projects independently. I can conduct research and complete tasks with guidance. I can distinguish priority items. I have experience working on technical and administrative assignments I have not performed any of the tasks above. 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects. I occasionally work in team settings and lead teams in work-related projects. I have led teams in non-work related activities. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. I do not have significant work experience working with teams. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.