Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following BEST represents your highest level of experience monitoring congressional activities to ensure program success? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience with monitoring congressional activities to ensure program success. I have assisted in monitoring congressional activities to ensure program success under close supervision. I have independently monitored congressional activities to ensure program activities. I am considered an expert in monitoring congressional activities to ensure program success. I have trained others in this activity and/or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your experience and ability to provide high level guidance in the implementation of Department policies and programs on international narcotics and crime issues? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have routinely and independently performed this task as regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your background in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in Foreign policy / international affairs. I have education or training in Foreign policy/ International affairs, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely perform work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. 8 Select which of the following United States government (USG) agencies / commissions you have interacted with to facilitate U.S. foreign policy and programmatic development involving international narcotics trafficking and crime: Answer to this question is required U.N. Office of Drugs and Crimes (UNODC) Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) The Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (CCPCJ) Department of Justice (DoJ) Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) Other USG Agencies None of the above 9 Which of the following BEST describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses on international narcotics trafficking, crime issues, and counterterrorism (or terrorism prevention)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 From the following list, please identify the BEST statement that describes your experience in the preparation and presentation of analyses of foreign assistance needs in Europe and Eurasia: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in presenting an analysis of foreign assistance needs in Europe and Eurasia. I have education and/or training in preparing an analysis of foreign assistance needs in Europe and Eurasia, but no experience in making a presentation of my findings and conclusions. I have experience in preparing an analysis of foreign assistance needs in Europe and Eurasia, and in presenting my findings and conclusions under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have experience in preparing an analysis of foreign assistance needs in Europe and Eurasia, and in presenting my findings and conclusions usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at preparing analyses of foreign assistance needs in Europe and Eurasia, and in presenting my findings and conclusions. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 I have negotiated conflicting views of policies and programs in pursuit of major goals Answer to this question is required I have performed this task with supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task is central or a major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. None of the above 12 Indicate your experience exercising initiative and using independent judgment in the prioritization of goals, the allocation of resources to meet those goals, and in the supervision of organizational progress towards those goals: Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 13 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 14 In which of the following roles have you directed or led others in the workplace? Answer to this question is required Team leader First line supervisor Middle manager Mentor Upper manager Head of organization None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.