Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized&nbsp;experience must demonstrate the following: (1) Providing leadership and/or administrative and technical supervision of staff, including managing workload, training and development, performance management, resource management and space requirements; (2) Planning, coordinating and directing the development and execution of strategic initiatives, standards, policies, procedures and systems to meet current and future operational objectives; (3) Performing complex analysis of facilities management and support services programs and operations and making recommendations to improve organizational performance; (4) Developing and implementing process improvements and cross-functional initiatives in support of organizational programs, operations and strategic goals; and (5) Developing innovative solutions to resolve complex problems and directing corrective action. 2 Have you been employed by the Federal Government in the Competitive service or in the Excepted Service?&nbsp; [note- if selected, you will be asked to provide your SF50(s)] Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development program to facilitate change and communication. None of the above. 4 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interview job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Ensured all employees are certified in the required courses established by the acquisition authorities. None of the above. 5 Which of the following administrative/managerial tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Assessed and improved program effectiveness using qualitative and quantitative methods. Interpreted and provided advice on policies, procedures, guidelines, and precedents. Developed new methods and techniques for forecasting long-range human capital needs. Analyzed and compared program content, cost-benefit, and viability of alternative budget and program actions. Interpreted and assessed the impact of new legislation or initiatives or programs on the formulation and execution of budgets. None of the above 6 What tasks did you perform to administer a budget or finance program? Answer to this question is required Advised management on availability of funds and day-to-day management of expenses. Participated in formulating and updating fiscal organizational or project management plans. Assembled and compiled preliminary data to estimate funds needed program or project activities. Compiled information for the annual organizational or project budget. Tracked expenditures, requirements, and deadlines in order to ensure adequate funding. Recommended and prepared necessary documentation to obtain and use funds. None of the above. 7 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience interpreting complex legislative and policy issues that affect the Agency's budget and programs. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed special exhibits required by the Agency. I have drafted authorization and appropriation language for my Agency. I have analyzed legislation to determine the impact on the Agency's programs and operations. I have analyzed enacted legislation for use in developing agency policies and procedures I have developed and tracked legislative language in support of new or revised programs and budgetary requirements throughout the Congressional legislative process I have provided special exhibits and provided technical assistance required by Agency officials and Congress. I have developed briefings, talking points, testimony and other material for senior Agency officials on the impact of authorization and appropriation language. I have developed materials, talking points, testimony, and briefing materials for senior Agency officials on the impact of legislation. None of the above 8 Do you have experience providing broad administrative and policy direction in budgeting and associated processes for a Federal agency or private sector organization, including budget planning, formulation, justification, execution, and performance improvement and monitoring? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Choose the statement that best describes your experience applying analytical methods and techniques to identify and resolve financial issues related to programs. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have analyzed program components, including those of a controversial nature and independently developed or recommended the most suitable program or system for modification. I have directed an organizational unit that analyzed program components, including those of a controversial nature, and directed the development or recommendation of the most suitable program or system plan for modification. I have established methodologies and directed the analysis of significant data from a complex array of multi-source funds in order to formulate budget and execution requirements for an agency's multi-year substantive programs. None of the above. 10 Do you&nbsp;have experience developing and monitoring implementation of strategic plans for an organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Select&nbsp;the proficiency levels that describe your ability to bring about strategic change to meet organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Designed approaches and procedures to develop a strategic operations plan supporting key agency goals and objectives. Established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. Conducted a review of the agency's core mission and gathered information from relevant sources to support development of a strategic plan. Implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of work unit goals. None of the above 12 Which of the following business operations tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Assessed and improved program effectiveness using qualitative and quantitative methods. Interpreted and provided advice on operating policies, guidelines, and precedents. Developed methods and techniques for forecasting long-range human capital needs. Analyzed and compared program content, cost-benefit, and viability of alternative actions. Interpreted and assessed the impact of new or revised policies and regulations on organizational operations. None of the above. 13 In which of the following areas do you have experience planning and evaluating activities? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Human Resources Management Emergency Management Financial Management Safety Management Supply Management Strategic Management Administration Management None of the above 14 What contracting methods have you used for procuring supplies, materials, equipment, and services? Answer to this question is required Micro purchases (less than $3,000) Simplified Acquisitions GSA Federal Supply Schedule buys Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity Contracts (IDIQ) Multiple Award Contracts (MAC), IDIQ Sole Source Full and Open Competition Government-Wide Agency Contracts (GWAC) Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPA) Complete Facility Maintenance (CFM) Service Contracts None of the above 15 Do you have experience managing a database or software? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 16 Which of the following reflects your experience using Facility Management or Work Order software? Answer to this question is required I have customized/configured a facility management or work order system. I have conducted training in the use of a facility management or work order system. I have developed portions of a facility management or work order system. I have performed facility management or work order systems integration. I have developed requirements to select a facility management or work order system. None of the above. 17 Which documents and/or business processes have you written? Answer to this question is required Management/operations reports. Financial reports. Data justification reports (non-financial). Performance accountability reports. Data interpretation/research reports (other than for performance accountability). Employee documents such as performance plans and appraisals. Program Evaluation Reports. Presentations. Memos. Statements of work. Standard operating procedures. Summaries. Process Improvement Plans. Action Plans. Policy Directives. Recommendations on the use of data. Recommendations for operational changes. On-Line Material. Printed Material. None of the above. 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.