Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. Applicants must also possess: Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Regional Health Services Administrator serves as the technical advisor to regional and institution staff. &nbsp; Additionally, he/she routinely communicates with other local, state, and Federal counterparts on medical matters. &nbsp; He/she must also communicate technical, complex information to others. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have collaborated with multidisciplinary teams, including mental health professionals and correctional staff, to address complex patient needs; and/or I have provided patient education to inmates during Admission and Orientation (A&O); and/or I have contacted other facilities/physicians to obtain medical information. I have briefed supervisor on field health services operations and made recommendations for improvements; and/or I have provided recommendations during a meeting; and/or I have assisted in providing updated information during a training course; and/or I have served on an institution committee addressing medical issues; and/or I have organized a Community Relations Board; and/or I have led a task force to resolve issues at the institution level; and/or I have participated as part of an after-action committee or suicide reconstruction review team, or Institution Character Profile (ICP) team that focused on various issues; and/or I have given a presentation during Annual Training. I have provided information to a task force as a resource person; and/or I have made routine presentations during staff meetings; and/or I have provided updates during a conference involving new procedures; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 6 The Regional Health Services Administrator must independently compose comprehensive reports, write plans, and make recommendations. &nbsp; He/she composes technical responses relating to health care policies, drafts operation memorandums, and writes correspondence regarding health issues/concerns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums and general correspondence to various disciplines in the institution; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed newsletter articles, routine reports, correspondence and memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written a memorandum to a department head/manager explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments within an institution/facility; and/or I have prepared descriptive medical log entries; and/or I have drafted a written response to a congressional inquiry. I have prepared institution supplements; and/or I have prepared correspondence for the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and/or I have evaluated and prepared documentation for major projects; and/or I have participated in a group preparation of a report by authoring part of the report, and reviewing and editing other team members’ submissions. None of the above. 7 The Regional Health Services Administrator must monitor the performance of subordinates and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within a correctional frame of reference; and/or I have recognized subordinates who volunteered for a committee within the institution and documented accomplishments. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensured all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program objectives and existing lesson plans; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees in a health services department; and/or I have ensured work of others within the health services department was completed within assigned deadlines; and/or I have reviewed the work products of subordinates for accuracy prior to final draft submission and discussed corrections with subordinate if needed. None of the above. 8 The Regional Health Services Administrator must possess a thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities for accreditation to ensure compliance with regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated communication with external auditors to address findings; and/or I have assisted in corrective action plans in response to audit findings; and/or I have supported the rollout of new or revised policies and procedures. I have participated with others in conducting an audit for health services; and/or I have participated with a team in preparation for an accreditation review; and/or I have participated on a committee or task force which developed policies and procedures for medical care. I have collected and evaluated data for a quality assurance program; and/or I have instructed subordinates on general health services issues; and/or I have updated program documentation for health services; and/or I have reviewed health services policies and provided recommendations for change. None of the above. 9 The Regional Health Services Administrator provides technical expertise to institution executive staff, health services administrators, and health services staff. &nbsp; In this capacity, he/she must be familiar with planning, programming, directing, and evaluating the administrative aspects of the medical program. He/she is responsible for providing technical expertise for all administrative aspects for the entire health care program in the region and/or institutions or geographical area assigned by the National Health Services Administrator. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have tracked expenditures in health services to maintain a positive balance; and/or I have provided oversight and monitored progress of a health services budget; and/or I have reorganized manpower schedules to maintain appropriate levels of medical coverage in an institution; and/or I have recommended the purchase of medical supplies; and/or I have conducted staff assistance visits in an institution for health services department; and/or I have monitored the inventory of medical equipment; and/or I have participated in medical contract negotiations. I have strategically planned and scheduled health care program meetings; and/or I have evaluated health care programs and provided recommendations for improvements to health care delivery to include budgetary responsibilities, purchasing, and contracting; and/or I have managed a small operating budget within a health care program. I have contacted vendors regarding delivery, reports, services or charges; and/or I have reconciled budget reports; and/or I have prepared equipment justifications; and/or I have reviewed medical contracts; and/or I have obtained necessary medical equipment. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. Applicants must also possess: Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level, as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Regional Health Service Administrators serves as the technical advisor to regional and institution staff. Additionally, he/she routinely communicates with other local, state, and Federal counterparts on medical matters. He/she must also communicate technical, complex information to others.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to a task force as a resource person; and/or I have made routine presentations during staff meetings; and/or I have provided updates during a conference involving new procedures; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have given briefings to upper management; and/or as a chairperson, I have guided a workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have presented current issues and provided resolutions during a meeting; and/or I have conducted group presentations and training; and/or I have participated on a task force evaluating medical care; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings. I have briefed supervisor on field health services operations and made recommendations for improvements; and/or I have provided recommendations during a meeting; and/or I have assisted in providing updated information during a training course; and/or I have served on an institution committee addressing medical issues; and/or I have organized a Community Relations Board; and/or I have led a task force to resolve issues at the institution level; and/or I have participated as part of an after-action committee, or suicide reconstruction review team, or Institution Character Profile (ICP) team that focused on various issues; and/or I have given a presentation during Annual Training. None of the above. 6 The Regional Health Services Administrator must independently compose comprehensive reports, write plans, and make recommendations.&nbsp; He/she composes technical responses relating to health care policies, drafts operation memorandums, and writes correspondence regarding health issues/concerns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums and general correspondence to various disciplines in the institution; and/or I have reviewed written material of subordinates and peers; and/or I have reviewed newsletter articles, routine reports, correspondence and memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have written a memorandum to a department head/manager explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure. I have prepared institution supplements; and/or I have prepared correspondence for the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and/or I have evaluated and prepared documentation for major projects; and/or I have participated in a group preparation of a report by authoring part of the report, and reviewing and editing other team members' submissions. I have developed national policy that was adopted for use by the agency; and/or I have prepared an executive staff paper; and/or I have prepared detailed plans and/or specifications for major renovations or projects; and/or I have prepared a narrative report on health services operations; and/or I have developed educational materials directly related to health services; and/or I have written an article published in a corrections publication or reference journal. None of the above. 7 The Regional Health Services Administrator must monitor the performance of subordinates and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within a correctional frame of reference; and/or I have recognized subordinates who volunteered for a committee within the institution and documented accomplishments. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught the curriculum for a new training course that fulfilled and identified training needs; and/or I have developed and initiated an employee enhancement program that measured the performance success rate of individual employees; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an organization. I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using per-established program objectives and existing lesson plans; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program. None of the above. 8 The Regional Health Services Administrator must possess a thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities for accreditation to ensure compliance with regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and implemented policies/plans/programs which significantly improved the quality of health care in a medical facility; and/or I have analyzed the needs, quality, and effectiveness of health services programs; and/or I have resolved complex health services issues; and/or I have developed and provided training to meet department goals and responsibilities; and/or I have developed internal review procedures; and/or I have served as Reviewer-in-Charge for an audit. I have collected and evaluated data for a quality assurance program; and/or I have instructed subordinates on general health services issues; and/or I have updated program documentation for health services; and/or I have reviewed health services policies and provided recommendations for change. I have participated with others in conducting an audit for health services; and/or I have participated with a team in preparation for an accreditation review; and/or I have participated on a committee or task force which developed policies and procedures for medical care. None of the above. 9 The Regional Health Services Administrator provides technical expertise to institution executive staff, health services administrators, and health services staff. &nbsp; In this capacity, he/she must be familiar with planning, programming, directing, and evaluating the administrative aspects of the medical program. He/she is responsible for providing technical expertise for all administrative aspects for the entire health care program in the region and/or institutions or geographical area assigned by the National Health Services Administrator. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted vendors regarding delivery, reports, services or charges; and/or I have reconciled budget reports; and/or I have prepared equipment justifications; and/or I have reviewed medical contracts; and/or I have obtained necessary medical equipment. I have tracked expenditures in health services to maintain a positive balance; and/or I have provided oversight and monitored progress of a health services budget; and/or I have reorganized manpower schedules to maintain appropriate levels of medical coverage in an institution; and/or I have recommended the purchase of medical supplies; and/or I have conducted staff assistance visits in an institution for health services department; and/or I have monitored the inventory of medical equipment; and/or I have participated in medical contract negotiations. I have allocated the annual operating budget; and/or I have developed innovative approaches to resolve complex health services issues; and/or I have served as a cost center manager for health services; and/or I have recommended the purchase of major medical equipment; and/or I have reviewed monthly staffing reports; and/or I have recommended cost saving initiatives that were adopted by management; and/or I have reviewed health services statistical reports. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).