Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False Grade: All Grades 1 In which area(s) do you have substantial knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required Senate and House Committee structures Congressional committees of jurisdiction over Department of State or any other Federal agency Congressional briefings, hearings and/or correspondence Implementation, execution and congressional relations in a specialty area Preparation of testimony, briefing materials, and communication to Congress Developing and preparing Congressional responses None of the above 2 Please select the response that BEST describes your knowledge of the Congressional Appropriations Process: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have formal education or training in the Congressional appropriations process, but have not yet participated directly in the process. I have experience in preparing appropriations requests and justifications for an office and have presented justifications for those requests to management. I have experience formulating and consolidating Congressional appropriations justifications, consulting with the managers and staff members to ensure that strategic goals, program activities and performance indicators are properly reflected in the appropriations justification. I have planned, directed and administered the formulation and submission of Congressional Appropriations requests, preparation of materials in support of Congressional testimony on the appropriations requests, participated in appropriations briefings to the Office of Management and Budget and/or Congressional staff, and have prepared formal responses to appropriator`s questions. 3 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of the legislative process, including processes for legislation development, committee operations, and congressional processes? Answer to this question is required I have general knowledge of the legislative process. I have worked as part of a unit in monitoring and/or reporting on legislative activities. I have been responsible for reporting on, or responding, to legislative activities / requests. I have directed a unit that was responsible for monitoring or reporting on legislative affairs. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at working with all aspects of the legislative process to include legislation development, committee operations, and congressional processes AND I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have directed an organization that was responsible for monitoring or reporting on legislative affairs. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at working with all aspects of the legislative process to include legislation development, committee operations, and congressional processes. I have no knowledge or experience of the legislative process. 4 Please select the response that best describes your knowledge of the Congressional Budget Process: Answer to this question is required I have no experience, formal education, or training in performing this task. I have formal education or training in the various tasks in the Congressional budget process but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience in preparing budget requests and justifications for an office and presented justifications to management. I have experience formulating and consolidating Congressional budget justifications, consulting with the managers and staff members to ensure that strategic goals, program activities, performance indicators are properly reflected in the budget justificatication. I have planned, directed and administered the formulation and submission of Congressional Budgets, preparation of materials in support of Congressional testimony on the budget, participated in budget briefings to the Office of Management and Budget and Congressional staff, prepared formal responses to appropriator`s questions. 5 What is your level of experience drafting speeches, congressional testimony and public relations and outreach materials for senior government officials? Answer to this question is required I have no experience drafting speeches, congressional testimony, or public relations and outreach materials for senior government officials. I have drafted speeches or public relations and outreach material for senior managers within an office or bureau. I have drafted speeches or public relations material for senior Agency or Department level managers. I have drafted speeches, public relations material and congressional testimony for senior Agency or Department level executives. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on congressional matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization's mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your depth of experience working and coordinating legislative strategies with senior officials throughout the Congressional community? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working and coordinating legislative strategies with senior officials throughout the Congressional community. I have experience working and coordinating legislative strategies, but not with senior officials in the Congressional community. I have experience working and coordinating legislative strategies with officials within the Congressional community. I am highly experienced working and coordinating legislative strategies with officials throughout the Congressional community. I have trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 I have experience working or coordinating with the following type of organization(s) to gain cooperation and support for academic exchange program objectives: Answer to this question is required U.S. governmental organizations Foreign governmental organizations Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) None of the above 9 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 10 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Establish priorities among multiple projects Establish timelines for multiple projects Close out projects Start up and manage projects through completion Establish and monitor project progress Meet deadlines Use project management software Make resource decisions for competing projects Assign tasks and monitor performance Anticipate and resolve problems None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.