Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-14 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed. Answer to this question is required Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Training Criminal Investigations None of the above 5 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed and implemented: Answer to this question is required Security Clearance Adjudication Facility / Information Access Force Protection High-threat Security Guard Force Operations Physical Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security Information Security Cyber Security TEMPEST Counter Intelligence Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Training None of the above 6 Please select the types of documents you have written related to counterterrorism sanctions: Answer to this question is required Policy Strategies Diplomatic Cables Intelligence Reports Sanctions Regulations Executive Orders Congressional Testimony Press Documents (Media Notes, Guidance) None of the above 7 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues: Answer to this question is required Risk Management / Analysis Personnel Security Counter-intelligence Information Assurance Construction Security Technical Security Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Electronic Security Physical Security Force Protection None of the above 8 Choose the example(s) that match your experience in preparing written materials: Answer to this question is required I have written analytical / technical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical / technical reports for external audiences. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have prepared issue papers and/or materials for briefing program personnel, subject matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 9 In which of the following areas of cyber policy do you have experience? Answer to this question is required International security Cybersecurity Cybercrime Internet freedom Internet governance Cyber Capacity Building Digital Economy None of the above 10 In which of the following areas of engineering have you had hands-on experience? Answer to this question is required Planning Design Construction Cost Estimating Management / Administration None of the above 11 Which of the following quality assurance / commissioning functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required Inspection / Acceptance of electronic security systems Inspection / Acceptance of electrical installations Inspection / Acceptance of conduit installations Inspection / Acceptance of other construction work Inspection / Acceptance of construction records and log books Review of construction records, log book, incident reports (IRs), etc. to identify emerging patterns Interview Site Security Personnel None of the above 12 Which of the following contract-related activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Served on a pre-negotiation team. Monitored a contract. Acted as a Contracting Officer`s Representative (COR). Written a statement of work (SOW). Developed quality assessment plan. Performed a cost comparison. Conducted technical evaluation. None of the above. 13 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skills that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 14 I have drafted and/or analyzed the following types of documents: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Engineering reports Project reports Budget Inventory reports Construction inspection records Material test results Plan specifications Bid documentation Contracts Engineering manuals None of the above 15 I have reviewed the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs in the following ways. Answer to this question is required Assessed vulnerabilities. Conducted field inspections. Conducted field evaluations. Conducted performance testing. Reviewed performance indices. Recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above 16 I have performed the following project management tasks. (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Developed a comprehensive plan that included a project timeline and allocation of duties Assured accuracy of technical details by consulting with relevant experts Developed or approved project budget and/or forecast Negotiated project details with external individuals or organizations Tracked project progress Managed project staffing Served as a technical consultant and assisted in resolving technical issues Drafted and submitted progress reports Managed project's conclusion None of the above 17 Please indicate which of the following Departments or agencies you have experience working with in a collaborative planning environment: Answer to this question is required Department of State (DoS) Department of Defense (DoD) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Department of Justice (DOJ) Other government agency None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.