Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience in interacting with the public and other customers while exercising tact and diplomacy? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following building services or activities do you have experience overseeing? Answer to this question is required Project development Quality assurance Facility assessment Custodial Contract administration Electrical systems Mechanical systems Vertical transportation systems None of the above 4 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience using performance measures to evaluate and improve building management programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 In which of the following areas of building management operations do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Mechanical operations Custodial operations Waste Management Pest control Repairs and alterations Grounds maintenance Quality assurance Energy conservation Asbestos abatement Electrical systems Vertical transportation None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your ability to negotiate effectively with management to accept and implement recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following best reflects your level of experience in managing a comprehensive building and facilities management program? Answer to this question is required I have some experience managing major elements of a building management program. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program which included geographically dispersed sites / facilities which were contained in one state. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program which includes geographically dispersed site / facilities, but which were contained in two states. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program that included sites / facilities dispersed across several states. None of the above 8 From the list, select the budget tasks that you have performed. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed budget estimates Developed budget plans Analyzed obligations and expenditures Ensured budget compliance with statutory and administrative compliance Conducted budget evaluation and recommended alternative procedures to reduce unnecessary expense None of the above 9 From the following list check the tasks that you perform or have performed on a daily basis in administering contracts: Answer to this question is required Recommend appropriate actions when the contractor is not in compliance with contract provisions. Monitor such matters as payments, claims, and contractual changes, to ensure requirements of the contract are met. Conduct contract reviews to evaluate contractor's performance and monitor activities, ensuring compliance. Negotiate the terms of contracts and agreements with contractors for the procurement of goods and/or services. Review completed contract files, to ensure administrative matters are resolved and/or completed. None of the above. 10 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Budget justifications Technical reports Policy Guidance Memorandums of Understanding Standard operating procedures Statements of work Contract solicitation Capital improvements Customer feedback survey report Quality assurance trend analysis report Contractor past performance evaluations Technical review reports Independent Government Estimates (IGE) None of the above 11 Which of the following best reflects your level of experience in overseeing contract management pertaining to building management operations? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 12 With which of the following Quality Assurance/Quality Control activities do you have experience and/or training? Answer to this question is required I have assisted with developing a quality assurance program for specific work products. I have served as a quality assurance reviewer. I have monitored quality assurance requirements for specific work products. I have developed a quality assurance program for specific work products. I have given quality assurance results and coaching to staff members. I have no experience with quality assurance functions but have had related training or education. I have no experience with quality assurance programs. Grade: All Grades Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.