Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 3 Which of the following procurement duties do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering a variety of goods and services Entering procurement data into an automated system Tracking delivery of goods and services Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders Completing a variety of procurement forms Purchasing a variety of goods and services Obtaining prices for available goods and services Conducting market surveys for available goods and services Conducting inventories and maintaining property accountability I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in procurement 4 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have NOT performed these job functions. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with a government purchase card? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of government purchase card principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have worked with a government purchase card holder to process a purchase request. I have been a government purchase card holder for less than 5 years. I have been a government purchase card holder for over 5 years. None of the above. 6 From the below options, select the role(s) that you have performed in Federal procurement. Answer to this question is required Administrative – requested and assembled quotes and supporting materials and prepared purchase requests, etc. Requester – developed statements of work, made recommendations for source selection, served as Contracting Technical Representative, etc. Buyer – used commercially issued credit card or purchase order process to order the identified goods or services, follows up on delivery of goods and processing of invoices, etc. All of the above. None of the above. 7 Do you have experience using a purchase card and reconciling charges in a business system (e.g. ERP, e-procurement, etc)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following tasks have you performed, on a regular basis, that demonstrates your ability to use PeopleSoft or a similar automated financial system? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Entering small purchase orders Entering requisitions Entering change orders Entering purchases with multiple funding lines Entering receiving reports Tracking payments Adding vendors Investigating "match exceptions" I have not performed any of the above tasks 9 Which of the following financial management activities have you performed in support of your organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have transferred funds between organizations and/or descriptive classes such as object classes and/or line items of the budget. I have entered financial data into a financial management system. I have set up new accounts in a financial management system. I have maintained/updated computerized fiscal records for expense accounts or budgeted line items. I have tracked and reported income and expenditures from one or more federal funds. I have tracked and reported income and expenditures from one or more non-appropriated funds. I have accessed an automated financial system to review financial activity on unit operating accounts. I have reconciled expenditure records or reports with authorized fund commitments. I have reconciled the accounts in the financial management database. I have monitored financial transactions to ensure the accuracy of data entry and identify issues and questions. I have provided guidance on financial management policy and processes. I have managed a cost-reimbursable project system with different funding sources and types of funds. I have generated standard and one-time reports from the financial management system. I have not performed any of the above functions. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience/education as it relates to computerized financial accounting systems? Answer to this question is required I have used a computerized financial accounting system; I have prepared purchase orders and requisitions, ensured that invoices are received and processed for payment; identified appropriate accounts, and assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generating reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system; I have prepared purchase orders and requisitions, identified appropriate accounts, and assigned proper accounting codes to transactions for monitoring fund availability, and generating reports on various aspects of expenditures. I have prepared travel authorizations and vouchers. I have used a computerized financial accounting system; I have prepared purchase orders and requisitions. None of the above 11 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed as part of your routine work assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in funds management. I have entered financial transactions into an automated tracking system. I have determined and verified accounting codes to be used to identify transactions, sources, purposes and programs. I have recommended and implemented changes to improve fund management processes and procedures. I have alerted managers of funds in jeopardy of deficit and/or unresolved discrepancies. I have tracked income and expenses for a broad range of funds with a great degree of accuracy. I have updated and verified financial reports for distribution to program managers. I have reconciled accounting system records with cuff records and tracked down data to make necessary corrections or adjustments. I have ensured that expenditures do not exceed available account balances. 12 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 13 Which of the following best describes your experience managing different types of funding sources? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing Federal, Discretionary, Grant, Gift, and Endowment funding. I have experience managing Federal, Discretionary, Grant, and Gift funding. I have experience managing Federal, Discretionary, and Grant funding. I have experience managing Federal and Discretionary funds. I have experience managing Federal funds. I have no experience with fund management. 14 Which of the following duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and reviewed financial documents. I have verified complete and correct information and financial data. I have prepared and reviewed documents to deposit revenue. I have recorded transactions. I have reconciled financial records. None of the above. 15 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Federal appropriations Revenue from business activities Sponsored project (i.e. contract/grant from a government agency or private source) Agency maintenance/repair Donations/gifts Cash management All of the above None of the above 16 Which of the following automated systems have you used to manage work flow or processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system such as PeopleSoft to process or monitor purchasing activity. I have used an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system such as PeopleSoft to process or monitor personnel actions and employee information. I have used an on-line travel program such as Travel Manager, GovTrip or Concur to create or review business travel arrangements. I have used an automated agency- or business-specific tracking system to create or review internal work orders. I have used an automated timekeeping program such as Kronos or WebTA to record or monitor time and attendance. I have not used any of the above systems. 17 Have you ever worked with an automated time and attendance recording system, e.g., ADP, Kronos webTA? If yes, please check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have recorded my own personal time in an automated system. I am or have been a timekeeper in charge of validating employee time and attendance information. I have worked with administrative staff to ensure correct accounting of time and attendance. I have entered/updated employee personal information in an automated time and attendance system. I have never worked with an automated time and attendance system. 18 Which of the following automated systems and processes have you used regularly used? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used automated data systems for scheduling, tracking and monitoring activities. (i.e., Outlook) I have used automated database software. (i.e., Excel) I have used desktop software packages to prepare documents and reports. (i.e., Word) I have used a travel management and petty cash system. (i.e., Concur) I have used a financial management system. (i.e., ERP) I have used a property management database. I have used a human resources management system. (i.e., HRMS, PeopleSoft) I have not used the above software programs but have used other software programs. None of the above. 19 Which of the following best describes your experience using spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel)? Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have used spreadsheet software to create spreadsheets and charts from scratch, as necessary. I have used spreadsheet software to create reports, formulas/summaries, and/or sort data. I have used spreadsheet software to generate tables and graphs from data. I have used spreadsheet software package to track personnel actions and/or financial transactions. I have inputted information into an already existing spreadsheet. I have modified an existing spreadsheet or spreadsheet format. I have created reports from established spreadsheets. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 20 From the list below, select the programs you have personal experience using to accomplish work assignments. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Access PowerPoint Microsoft Project Open Office Word Perfect None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.