Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have at least one year professional legal experience as a practicing attorney. I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have a second professional law degree (LL.M). I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have superior law school achievement. I do not possess the experience or education as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 12 1 GS-12. Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have at least two years of professional legal experience as a practicing attorney. I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have at least one year of experience as a practicing attorney and a second professional law degree (LL.M). I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 GS-12. Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as: 1) conducting investigations and assessing evidence developed in recommending litigation or other resolutions; 2) preparing pleadings and legal documents; AND 3) providing legal advice related to statutory and regulatory enforcement authorities. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience. Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have at least three years of professional legal experience as a practicing attorney. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 GS-13. Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as: 1) conducting investigations and determining investigative and legal strategy; 2) drafting and negotiating agreements 3) drafting pleadings, motions, or legal memoranda; 4) participating in hearings or trials; AND 5) providing legal advice related to statutory and regulatory enforcement authorities. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience. Answer to this question is required I possess a J.D. or LL.B. I have at least four years of professional legal experience as a practicing attorney. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 GS-14. Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as: Independently: 1) conducting complex investigations and determining investigative and legal strategy; 2) drafting and negotiating complex agreements; 3) drafting complex pleading, motions, or legal memoranda; 4) representing clients in hearings or trials; AND 5) providing legal advice on complex matters related to statutory and regulatory enforcement authorities. I do not possess the experience as described above. 3 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand that the duty station listed in the vacancy announcement, Bethesda, MD, is temporary. The CPSC Headquarters is relocating to Washington, DC. The position to which I am applying will be located in Washington, DC after the agency&rsquo;s transition to the new location. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Evaluate your ability to understand and interpret statutes, regulations, case law, and administrative procedures and apply them to specific situations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it in a work environment. I have performed this task/competency in a work environment, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 12 Have you taken the deposition of a party or witness in a litigation matter? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 I have prepared the following written legal documents: Answer to this question is required Investigative Letters Discovery Fact Summaries Legal Summaries Pleadings Legal Memoranda Briefs Settlement Agreements Motions None of the Above 14 Evaluate your ability to give oral presentations to convey legal and factual information and technical details. Answer to this question is required I have given oral presentations in a work environment using various communication tools such as Power Point or slide presentations, briefing charts, and/or graphics to a variety of groups on a variety of topics. I have given oral presentations to small groups that are familiar with the topic. I have given oral presentations as part of my coursework in an educational setting. I have not given oral presentations in an educational or work environment. 15 I possess the education and/or experience to clearly and persuasively communicate in writing. I can, in particular, clearly identify and communicate in writing the relevant legal and factual matters in issue and present the strengths and weaknesses of each side of these issues. Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Evaluate your ability to work with technical and scientific professionals to understand and apply scientific and technical principles. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it in a work environment. I have performed this task/competency in a work environment, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 17 Evaluate your ability to conduct investigations of violations of statutes or&nbsp; regulations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it in a work environment. I have performed this task/competency in a work environment, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 18 Describe your experience negotiating information requests or agreements. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it in a work environment. I have performed this task/competency in a work environment, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 19 Select the areas in which you have had demonstrated experience. Answer to this question is required Developing legal theories Assessing evidence developed through investigations Conducting witness interviews Preparing cases for hearing or trial Acting as the principal attorney in a hearing or trial None of the Above 20 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 21 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty 22 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).