Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 2 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of these tasks due to my expertise in these areas. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed them independently and usually without the assistance from a supervisor. I have performed these tasks on the job. My work was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior co-worker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing these tasks but have not yet applied it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing these tasks. 3 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in the area of supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader. I have limited supervisory experience. None of the above. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience as a supervisor or manager developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch, or office? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience as a supervisor or manager developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch, or office. I have experience as a team leader developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch or office but not as a supervisor or manager. I have assisted as a member of a team with developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch, or office. I do not have experience developing work plans, balancing work loads, meeting deadlines and ensuring timely production of products for a team, division, branch or office. 6 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency policy coordination. I have work experience representing my agency in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.