Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience independently trouble shooting and repairing small engines (e.g., lawn mowers, parking gate arms)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience operating machining tools? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to operating machining tools. I completed education or training related to operating machining tools but have not yet applied it on the job. I operated machining tools under direct supervision. I independently operated machining tools. 3 Do you have experience using a computer to submit time and attendance or complete work orders? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the decisions you have made independently to operate machine tools. Answer to this question is required Selection of tools and attachments Selection of type and size of raw stock needed for specific jobs Sequence of machining operations Appropriate speeds and feeds necessary to attain required finishes and tolerances None of the above 5 Select the types of workers you have interacted with to provide machine tool support (e.g., equipment fabrication or repair). Answer to this question is required Welders Plumbers Masons Carpenters Sheet metal workers Painters Grounds workers Elevator mechanics Air Conditioning (AC) mechanics None of the above 6 Select the maintenance activities you have performed independently. Answer to this question is required Grinding and sharpening blades (e.g., scissors, joiners) Lubricating parts (e.g., oiled, greased) Visually inspecting equipment for damage None of the above 7 Select the basic hand tools you have used independently to complete machinist tasks. Answer to this question is required Socket sets Wrenches Chisels Hammers Screw drivers Drills and taps Screw extractors (E-Z outs) None of the above 8 Select the precise measuring devices you have used to ensure finished products meet specifications. Answer to this question is required Micrometer Bore gauge Ruler Square Dial indicator Vernier calipers Feelers gauge Taper and level gauges None of the above 9 Select the machine tools you have independently operated. Answer to this question is required Milling machine Grinder Lathe Buffer Drill Press Table Saw Shaper None of the above 10 Select the preventive maintenance activities you have performed on doors/locks. Answer to this question is required Lubricated Cleaned Adjusted None of the above 11 Have you independently set up and manually operated machining tools (e.g., lathe, grinder, milling machine) to fabricate or repair equipment (e.g., doors, bolts, metal furniture)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which types of calculations have you made using advanced mathematics? Answer to this question is required Dimensions (e.g., length, width, thickness) needed for finished product Location of surfaces and angles to be machined Location of reference points Diameters for various screw threads Exact angles to locate and bore or grind precision holes None of the above 13 Have you independently laid out lock hardware for door installations following dimensions from lock sets and blueprints? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 I have independently adjusted machining methods (e.g., feed rate, lubricants) based on the metal being used to prevent distortion and meet requirements for dimensions, tolerances, strength. Answer to this question is required True False 15 Do you have experience fabricating specialized tools or equipment that are customized for unique jobs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Select the documents you have interpreted to perform machinist work. Answer to this question is required Mechanical drawings Blueprints Wiring schematics Specifications Work orders None of the above 17 Select the activities you have performed related to security door installation. Answer to this question is required Fabricated door hardware (e.g., hinges, locks) Modified existing door hardware Laid out frames for non-conventional doors Replaced/installed new locks Installed Magnetic Security Locks (MagLocks) None of the above 18 Which types of doors have you installed and/or repaired? Answer to this question is required Roll-up doors (e.g., garage doors) Pneumatic doors Fire doors Custom sized/designed doors None of the above 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.