Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise and lead a workforce.** Demonstrated proficiency in the following:Planned or adjusted work by identifying requirements, staff, time and resources to accomplish goals; Solved problems by anticipating, diagnosing, and analyzing facts to reach a conclusion; Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity and holding staff accountable; Ensured quality control by monitoring the integrity and consistency of work performed; Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs and capabilities of staff and handling issues with tact; Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity and consideration for others ideas; Implemented improvement of current business processes and work quality through innovation and continuous development; Motivated and provided direction with constructive feedback and coaching; and Created a work environment that fosters creativity and integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing at least SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of printing equipment, processes, and technologies used in managing a printing program .** Demonstrated knowledge of a printing program, its printing equipment, processes and technologies. Answer to this question is required Managed an agency-wide printing program and developed conforming policies and procedures for agency-wide implementation using technical expertise in interpreting public laws, and regulations for printing, copying, and electronic publishing management. Printing requests involved high value, complex printing requirements that used specialized equipment and processes. Managed a printing program and developed policies and procedures using technical expertise for printing, copying and electronic publishing management. Printing requests involved high value, complex printing requirements that used specialized equipment and processes. Made final determinations as to the type of printing to be used, established priorities and schedules, and determined whether to use outside contractors. Managed a printing program and developed policies and procedures using technical expertise for printing, copying and publishing management. Made final determinations as to the type of printing to be used, established priorities and schedules, and determined whether to use outside contractors. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to recommend and implement graphic design and user support policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines .** Recommended and implemented graphic design and user support policies and procedures for the production and dissemination of textual- and visual-based products. Answer to this question is required As a major job responsibility, was responsible for developing and implementing graphic design and user support policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines to meet the objectives of an agency/organization in the production and dissemination of diverse textual- and visual-based products. Routinely recommended and implemented graphic design and user support policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines to meet the objectives of an agency/organization in the production and dissemination of diverse textual- and visual-based products. Occasionally recommended graphic design and user support policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines to meet the objectives of an agency/organization in the production and dissemination of diverse textual- and visual-based products. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to review the work products and services of others . Evaluated the textual- and visual-based products and services of others to meet the quality standards of an agency/organization. This included clearly articulating any problems and concerns about the products and making recommendations for their improvement. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, evaluated and critically reviewed diverse textual- and visual-based products and services for compliance with established quality standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Had responsibility for suggesting improvements to the content and organization of this material. As a job responsibility, routinely evaluated and critically reviewed diverse textual- and visual-based products and services for compliance with established quality standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Offered recommendations to improve material. As a job responsibility, occasionally evaluated and critically reviewed diverse textual- and visual-based products and services for compliance with established quality standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide program management, evaluation, and oversight . Provided program management to plan, organize and oversee the work activities and schedules of a program. Answer to this question is required Independently provided program management; oversaw work activities and monitored progress of the program. Analyzed information to discern program patterns, trends and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Developed strategies, recommended proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Co-managed a program providing program management and oversight. Analyzed information to discern program patterns, trends, and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Recommended proposals, and assisted with implementing plans to improve program effectiveness. Provided program management for segments of an overall program. With minimal supervision, evaluated programs and operations to identify improved management practices and process improvements to improve program effectiveness. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).