Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 Please select from the list below situations in which you have developed and recommended policy: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 3 Which of the following types of real estate agreements have you negotiated and managed through to completion? Answer to this question is required Residential sales contract Office property purchase contract Office lease Office lease with landlord executed tenant improvements Warehouse lease Residential lease Residential property exchange agreement Nonresidential / commercial property exchange agreement License agreement Right-of-way agreement Easement agreement Build-to-suit agreement Lease / Purchase agreement Acquisition or disposal involving both monetary and property exchange Tenant improvement (fit-out) agreement None of the above 4 Please indicate the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience: Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an agency or company. Coordinated the activities of an agency or company in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic / Tactical Planning process Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units within an agency or company. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic / tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets / forecasting. Performed local, state, and/or Federal budgeting. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex agency or company. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an agency or company. None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience articulating problems and proposals in a concise, accurate, and persuasive manner? Answer to this question is required I have no experience articulating problems and proposals in a concise, accurate, and persuasive manner. I have experience articulating problems and proposals with executive management. I have experience articulating problems and proposals with senior management. I have experience articulating problems and proposals with mid-level management I have experience articulating problems and proposals with colleagues. I have experience articulating problems and proposals with technical team members. 6 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of responsibility when identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate implications? Answer to this question is required I led a division responsible for identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate? I led a team responsible for identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate. I participated on a team responsible for identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate. I advised senior management on issues pertaining to identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate. I have experience independently identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate. I have experience identifying and understanding divergent opinions and perspectives related to real estate under supervision. None of the above 7 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience developing briefings for senior management officials including analyses, conclusions, and recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your experience reviewing work performed by others? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education reviewing work performed by others. I have some experience reviewing work performed by others. I have performed tasks that involved reviewing work performed by others with review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently reviewed work performed by others. I am highly skilled at reviewing work performed by others. I have trained or overseen others in this activity or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have experience in all of the following areas: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling of resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 6 of the 7 following areas: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling of resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have experience in many aspects of supervision, including 4 of the 7 following areas: hiring, awarding, disciplining, conflict resolution, scheduling of resources, employee development, performance evaluation. I have been a team leader, but not a supervisor. I have had leadership training, but have not yet supervised or lead a staff. None of the above 10 Which of the following documents have you reviewed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Land purchase agreements Title deeds Legal descriptions Land surveys Ground leases Easements Contracts Title policies Subordination agreements None of the above 11 Which of the following describes your level of expertise in real estate financial analysis and market valuation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in real estate financial analysis and market valuation. I have education or training in real estate financial analysis and market valuation, but have NOT yet performed it on the job. I have performed real estate financial analysis and market valuation with close supervision from supervisors. I have performed real estate financial analysis and market valuation as a regular part of the job and usually without supervision. I am highly skilled in performing real estate financial analysis and market valuation and have trained others to perform this task. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.