Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of electronic equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electronic equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 12 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of electronic equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electronic equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility maintaining and repairing electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required I have independently maintained or repaired electronic equipment. I have maintained or repaired electronic equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in maintaining or repairing electronic equipment. I have completed training or education in maintaining or repairing electronic equipment. I have not maintained or repaired electronic equipment. 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience independently using a computerized work order system to manage assigned work responsibilities. Answer to this question is required I tracked the status of computerized work orders to prioritize jobs and monitor systems for problems. I created and updated computerized work orders to document the work performed by other employees. I retrieved computerized work orders created by others to document the work I performed. I printed paper copies of computerized work orders that were created by others to perform my work. I have not used a computerized work order system. 3 Which of the following competencies have you demonstrated in the performance of your duties and responsibilities as an Electronics Mechanic? Answer to this question is required Skill in interpreting electronic drawings, specifications, and schematics of complex operational systems. Knowledge of the operation, capabilities, and limitations of electronic test equipment. Ability to integrate the functions of old, outdated equipment with new state-of-the-art equipment while maintaining the integrity of the entire system and its related functions. Ability to install circuit boards, analyze programs, troubleshoot, inspect, test, and maintain electronic equipment and effect repairs. I do not possess any of the above competencies. 4 Have you determined a new method to install or maintain electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 5 Do you have experience collaborating with engineers to identify and apply new methods to resolve installation or maintenance problems? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 6 Do you have experience communicating new methods or updates to job-related standards to others to inform them of the most recent practices and approaches? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 7 For which reasons have you used electronic test equipment? Answer to this question is required Assessing the voltage levels Testing fiber optic cable for continuity Assessing amperage/resistance levels Measuring footage (e.g., to determine length/footage of cable run) Troubleshooting electronic boards/systems Testing to de-energize circuits to safely work on None of the above 8 Which tools have you used to test electronic equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Frequency Counters/Meters IR light Meters Ohmmeters Oscilloscopes OTDRs RF Power Meters RF Spectrum Analyzers Tone Generators Voltmeters None of the Above 9 Do you have experience in troubleshooting, installing and replacing microprocessors and circuit boards? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience, and provide a brief description of the tasks you performed.&nbsp; Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 500 characters) Maximum length of 500 characters. No 10 Which equipment have you operated to maintain building HVAC systems? Answer to this question is required Vacuum pump Refrigeration gauges Belt tensioning tool Water jetter Recovery machine None of the above 11 What is your experience related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and remotely using a DDC system. I have experience changing temperatures using a DDC system. I have experience driving control valves and damper motors. I have experience programming a DDC system. 12 Do you have experience in the installation, modification, operation, maintenance, calibration, repair and troubleshooting of Direct Digital Controls (DDC) for Air Conditioning Equipment and for the day-to-day overall performance of the DDC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.