Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing painting tasks to ensure proper completion. As a team leader I have reviewed the work of employees performing painting tasks to ensure proper completion. I have provided instructions or demonstrations to employees performing painting tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 2 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 4 Have you trained others on the proper procedures for repairing walls and decorative fixtures with plaster? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following tasks have you completed when performing inspections? Answer to this question is required I have read and comprehended technical manuals, building plans and notes that were complex or incomplete when performing inspections. I have interpreted complicated instructions for other workers in performing inspections. I have used my extensive knowledge to perform inspections. I have resolved problems involving inspections. None of the above. 6 Select the statements that describe your experience communicating with others. Answer to this question is required I have informed others on the status of an assignment or project. I have listened to others and provided information that addressed their specific concerns/needs. I have persuaded others to agree with or approve my recommendations. I have explained technical information to educate non-technical audiences. None of the above 7 Select the tasks that you have performed in the theoretical, precise and artistic painting functions. Answer to this question is required Pre-surface preparation Measurement of surrounding conditions Evaluation of compressor, air cleanliness, and surfaces preparation equipment Determination of surface preparation, cleanliness, and profile Mixing and thinning of coating materials Evaluation of application equipment Inspecting coating application and cleanliness between coats Determination of wet-film and dry-film thickness Pinhole and holiday testing Evaluating adhesion/cure None of the above 8 Which of the following ornamental plastering methods have you applied? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Skip-troweling Sponging Brushing Knocking down Swirl texturing Graffito None of the above 9 Which response best describes your highest level of experience matching paints? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have used a computerized tint machine to tint paint. I have used a spectrophotometer to match paint. I have used newer materials to match paint when the base no longer existed, using only my vision and past experience. I have matched paint for historical surfaces or where sunlight caused fading, making multiple surfaces differ in shades of the same color, using only my vision and past experience. 10 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience plastering surfaces. Answer to this question is required I have independently repaired decorative plaster work (e.g., rosettes, medallions) or created custom molds. I have independently repaired plaster walls and ceilings using a three-coat plaster process. I have assisted a plasterer by performing demolition, mixing plaster, or applying scratch coat. I have assisted with a construction project by setting up drop cloths, retrieving materials, or constructing plastic walls (e.g., zip walls) to contain dust. None of the above. 11 Which of the following processes have you applied when performing plastering tasks? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Prepared job for the taping process. Performed interior base and finish plastering. Applied plaster veneer. Installed cornice moulding and ornamental moulding. Fabricated cast moulding and cornice. Installed pre-fabricated cornice moulding and ornamental moulding. Applied exterior cement plaster base and various finishes. Repaired drywall, taping and plaster. Applied special plaster finishes and specialty coatings. None of the above. 12 Which decorative finishing/painting techniques have you performed? Answer to this question is required Marbleizing Glazing Graining Sponging Antiquing Sign Painting Painting seals/murals Painting ornamental plaster Gold leafing Texturing Lettering None of the above 13 What types of surfaces have you applied paint? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Glass Synthetic Concrete Drywall / Plaster Other Surfaces None of the above 14 Have you estimated the type of materials and amount of each needed to complete a project (e.g., amount of paint, type of brush, drop cloth)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience ensuring the accuracy of supply inventories: Answer to this question is required I have not ensured the accuracy of supply inventories or supply orders. I have matched inventory records to physical inventory to check accuracy. I have identified inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. I have resolved inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. 16 I have used an automated inventory system. Answer to this question is required True False 17 Have you independently measured water and plaster to create a plaster mixes with different consistencies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 For which of the following practices have you referred to manufacturers' instructions and industry practices to perform plastering tasks? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Determined when to proceed with drywall finishing. Selected and mixed fast-setting compound. Prepared walls and ceilings for texturing. Applied leveling coats, primer and sealers for walls and ceilings. Applied pre-mix compounds, aggregates, non-aggregates, base coat materials, finish coat materials, sealers and sealants. None of the above. 19 Select the tasks that you have performed in the quality compliance inspection process. Answer to this question is required Pre-surface preparation Measurement of surrounding conditions Evaluation of compressor, air cleanliness, and surface preparation equipment Determination of surface preparation, cleanliness, and profile Mixing and thinning of coating materials Evaluation of application equipment Inspecting coating application and cleanliness between coats Determination of wet-film and dry-film thickness Pinhole and holiday testing Evaluating adhesion/cure None of the above 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.