Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Please select the answer which best reflects your experience working with SQL, MySQL or other relational database systems. Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of SQL or relational databases I have had education or training in SQL and database systems, but have not used it on the job I have working knowledge of SQL database systems and have used them to manage one or more relational databases I have extensive knowledge of SQL database systems and use them on a regular basis to manage one or more relational databases 3 Please select the answer which best reflects your experience working with NoSQL technologies (e.g., MongoDB), and graph databases (e.g., Neo4j). Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of NoSQL and graph databases I have had education or training in NoSQL and graph database systems, but have not used it on the job I have working knowledge of NoSQL and graph databases and have used them to manage one or more databases I have extensive knowledge of NoSQL and graph databases use them on a regular basis to manage one or more databases 4 Which of the following databases do you have experience implementing, maintaining and supporting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Neo4J Microsoft SQL Server MongoDB MySQL PostgreSQL Other (must be demonstrated in resume) None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your level of work experience with the development and back-end maintenance of relational database management systems in managing scientific &nbsp; or geospatial data Answer to this question is required I have experience performing complex data entry and data searching tasks utilizing a relational database system, in the context of scientific or geospatial data. I have experience implementing basic system modifications to improve user productivity in the context of scientific or geospatial data. I have experience successfully performing primary database administrator duties and/or complex system modifications utilizing a relational database system in managing scientific or geospatial data. I have no work experience with the development and back-end maintenance of relational database management systems in managing scientific or geospatial data. 6 Which of the following activities do you have experience monitoring capacity and performance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Modeling and analyzing infrastructure systems capacity and performance data in order to increase efficiency of operations Planning for future systems expansion and enhancements Improving system reliability and redundancy System tuning for optimum performance to match customer requirements and to maximize resource utilization None of the above 7 Which of the following statements best describes your technical knowledge and demonstrated work experience analyzing, evaluating, and developing solutions to resolve interface, integration, and interoperability issues of multiple systems including legacy systems? Answer to this question is required I have education and training in analyzing, evaluating, and developing solutions to resolve interface, integration, and interoperability issues of multiple systems including legacy systems, but I have not applied this knowledge at work. I have basic knowledge in these areas and have worked as part of a technical team analyzing, evaluating, and developing solutions to resolve interface, integration, and interoperability issues of multiple systems including legacy systems (usually under the direction of a supervisor or a senior employee). I have working knowledge in these areas and have worked as part of a technical team analyzing, evaluating, and developing solutions to resolve interface, integration, and interoperability issues of multiple legacy systems, while seeking help or advice only for complex issues. I have advanced knowledge in these areas and have demonstrated work experience analyzing, evaluating, and developing solutions to resolve interface, integration, and interoperability issues of multiple systems including legacy systems (without direct supervision). I have managed technical teams supporting legacy systems and have extensive demonstrated work experience analyzing, evaluating, and developing solutions to resolve interface, integration, and interoperability issues of multiple systems including legacy systems. I am considered an expert in the resolution of complex systems integration/interoperability issues, and my organization relies on me as a technical lead in the resolution of complex system-related issues. I have not done any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with the application of IT project management principles (Systems Development Life Cycle). &nbsp;(Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team that incorporated the application of IT project management principles using PMBOK Project Management principles and industry standards for Systems Development Life Cycle guidelines and methodologies for large scale enterprise systems. I have experience leading a team that incorporated the application of IT project management principles using industry standards for Systems Development Life Cycle guidelines and methodologies for large scale enterprise system. I have participated as part of a team that incorporated the application of IT project management principles using industry standards for Systems Development Life Cycle guidelines and methodologies for large scale enterprise system. None of the above. 9 Please select the answer which best reflects your experience with metadata standards and practices, and markup languages as related to digital resources Answer to this question is required I have no experience with these metadata standards I have had some exposure to these metadata standards I have had formal training in these metadata standards I have ample experience with these metadata standards 10 Which of the following responses best describe your involvement with the planning, analysis, design, development, testing, quality assurance, configuration, installation, implementation, and management of the systems environment in support of the organization's IT architecture and business needs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed systems requirements in response to business requirements, risks, and costs I have evaluated, selected, verified and validated systems software environment. I have evaluated new systems engineering technologies and their effect on the operating environment. None of the above. 11 Which of the following describes your experience with computer systems architecture, operating systems, data base design, information engineering and trouble-shooting, and software development methodologies, tools, and techniques? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have received formal training in an information technology discipline such as computer systems architecture, operating systems, database design, or information engineering. I have experience in producing documentation in a science-related environment. I have experience in producing information technology-related documents such as procedures, policy statements, requirements documentation, project documentation, workflows, job aids, and user guides where it is necessary to independently gather content information. I do not have experience with any of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing, troubleshooting and solving database/operating system problems? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, have trained others or am often consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience in applying methods and techniques to support database operations and enhancements exercising sound technical judgment? Answer to this question is required I have independently planned and executed assignments within established objectives and applied judgment in carrying out work as a regular part of the job, usually consulting with supervisor or senior employee on complex issues. I have performed this task on the job, carrying out assignments with general supervision and following established approaches to complete work. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision and detailed instructions from a supervisor or senior employee to complete assignments. I have not performed this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in gathering, analyzing, and implementing user system requirements? Answer to this question is required I have facilitated group discussions for requirements definition and resolution processes for user problems and issues, documenting the requirements, analyzing results, presenting the results to staff/management and taking actions to implement the requirements. I have facilitated group discussions for requirements definition, offered suggestions for user problems and issues and documented the results. I have participated in group discussions focused on gathering end user requirements and offered suggestions for user problems and issues. I have not performed this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.