Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Specialized experience is defined as experience applying fundamental human resources (HR) concepts, laws, regulations andprinciples in order to analyze routine HR issues and problems in two or more of the following HR specialties: compensation, recruitment/placement, benefits, employee relations, labor relations, employee development, performance management, and records retention. 1 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service as described above. I have completed one academic year of graduate level education (18 semester hours or the equivalent). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND graduated in the upper third of the college, university or major subdivision such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration based on completed coursework. I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND have a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded in the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND I have a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum (grade point averages are rounded to one decimal place). I have completed all requirements for a Bachelor's degree, from an accredited college or university, AND I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society (listed in the Association of College Honor Societies: Booklet of Information and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities). I have a combination of qualifying graduate education and specialized experience as described above that when combined meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the qualification requirements described above. 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-7 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-5 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). Grade: 09 Specialized experience is experience applying HR concepts, laws, regulations, principles, practices, policies, precedents, and systems in order to identify, evaluate, and recommend solutions to HR problems/issues in two or more of the following specialties: compensation, recruitment/placement, benefits, employee relations, labor relations, employee development, performance management, and records retention. 1 Please select the choice that describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service as described above. I possess a master's or equivalent level degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or JD. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-9 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-8 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: Complete all required sections and upload your documents, then navigate to the 'Review and Submit' page to select 'Submit Application'. Note that incomplete applications will not be considered. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the &lsquo;Confirmation Page&rsquo; where you can download a copy of your final application package. You may edit your submission anytime before the closing deadline. If you do, you must return to the 'Review and Submit' page and select 'Submit Application' again before the closing deadline. For any mandatory long-answer questions, ensure your responses are supported by your resume. If you do not have related experience, enter "N/A" in the space provided. The system will time out after one hour of inactivity on any web page, and unsaved entries will be lost. Note that typing in a text box does not register as system activity. To save your work and return later, enter placeholder text in any empty text spaces and navigate to the next page. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).