Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with developing communication strategies and outreach plans to inform and educate the public about an organization's policies or programs? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 2 Provided advice to senior defense officials in the following communication areas (check all that apply). Answer to this question is required Communication Requirements Establishing Objectives Public Relations Strategies Crisis Management TV/Radio/Online Marketing 3 Choose the statement which BEST describes your highest level of experience managing people in writing and editing material for publication. Answer to this question is required I have training but no work experience in managing writers and editors. I have assisted others in managing writers and editors. I have supervised other writers and editors while preparing material for publication. I have trained others to write and edit material for publication. I have supervised other writers and editors while preparing material for publication while also coordinating with other editors, developing strategic communications plans, allocating resources and making short-term, mid-term and long-term decisions for written communications projects. None of the above 4 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of negotiating experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education or training in negotiating issues. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have defended my positions and negotiated specific issues under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I routinely and independently defend my positions and negotiate an array of issues under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I defend my positions and negotiate issues as a central or major part of my work. I perform this task routinely and usually independently. I consult with the supervisor OR a senior colleague in negotiating more complex issues. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing digital communications strategies for social media platforms? Answer to this question is required I have developed digital communications strategies for social media platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VKontakte, Sina Weibo, WeChat, YouTube). I have synthesized recommendations for the development of digital communications strategies for social media platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VKontakte, Sina Weibo, WeChat, YouTube). I have formally evaluated digital communications strategies for social media platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VKontakte, Sina Weibo, WeChat, YouTube). I have employed and implemented recommendations on digital communications strategies for social media platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VKontakte, Sina Weibo, WeChat, YouTube). I have presented recommendations to senior-level stakeholders on digital communications strategies for social media platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VKontakte, Sina Weibo, WeChat, YouTube). I have successfully trained others on digital communications strategies for social media platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, VKontakte, Sina Weibo, WeChat, YouTube). None of the above. 6 Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional experience? Answer to this question is required Review and integrate into content development sentiment analysis reports and other forms of audience research. Review and integrate content performance data into future content development. Coordinate content strategy with requirements of broad messaging campaigns. Review and approve story pitches. Oversee content development teams that include writers, photo editors, and graphic designers. Edit content directly within a WordPress system. Edit content that describes official policies of the United States government. Edit content that depicts aspects of American society, culture, and life. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.