Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Employee Engagement Specialist ensures information is clearly communicated orally with all Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) employees.&nbsp; He/she provides clear oral presentations and training sessions on the impact of employee engagement on the federal correctional workforce to Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) leadership and employees. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided a formal training at a national training event focused on fostering a positive workplace culture, strengthening relationships between employees, and reinforcing organizational values; and/or I have presented a research paper at a professional conference; and/or I have engaged in direct discussions with employees and management focused on understanding concerns, providing support, and gathering feedback; and/or I have facilitated group discussions with employees and management to encourage collaboration, share updates, and promote engagement initiatives. I have provided informal training to peers focused on improving department functionality; and/or I have, as a member of a team or professional group, assisted others with providing a presentation/workshop focused on sharing information and finding solutions to common problems; and/or I have engaged in direct discussions with coworkers focused on gathering feedback. I have provided formal training at a local training event focused on strengthening relationships between employees, or reinforcing organizational values; and/or I have formally mediated disputes to help employees navigate workplace challenges; and/or I have provided employees coaching and mentorship on maintaining a positive work environment; and/or I have engaged in direct discussions with local leadership focused on understanding concerns, providing support, and gathering feedback; and/or I have facilitated group discussions with employees to encourage collaboration, share updates, and promote engagement initiatives. None of the above. 3 The Employee Engagement Specialist produces written information to keep Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) employees motivated, connected, and thriving.&nbsp; He/she develops reports and recommendations to enhance and improve programs and systems.&nbsp; The Employee Engagement Specialist has expert skills in written communication sufficient to develop presentations, reports, and training. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted procedures after participating in local initiatives to acknowledge department or individual achievements; and/or I have provided employees with written information on department updates; and/or I have summarized information from employees to address workplace or department culture; and/or I have authored materials that address department expectations. I have developed and sent organization/agency updates on organization initiatives, recognition programs, and employee engagement activities; and/or I have designed organization/agency questionnaires to gather employee opinions and improve workplace satisfaction; and/or I have compiled engagement metrics and insights and advised high level officials of findings; and/or I have authored materials that outline organization/agency workplace expectations and engagement strategies; and/or I have created national social media content to highlight organization/agency culture and celebrate employee achievements. I have developed and sent informational updates on local initiatives or employee engagement activities; and/or I have assisted with designing questionnaires about workplace culture; and/or I have written new procedures for management which were approved for implementation. None of the above. 4 The Employee Engagement Specialist works directly with Central Office, Regional Offices, and institutions relating to the design and implementation of initiatives that boost morale, foster a sense of belonging, and increase overall employee satisfaction. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with developing engagement strategies that supported department objectives and enhanced department culture; and/or I have collaborated with peers to develop strategies that improved employee satisfaction; and/or I have assisted others with tracking department engagement metrics, survey results, or feedback; and/or I have participated in initiatives to enhance department morale and productivity; and/or I have executed engagement strategies within own department. I have developed engagement strategies that supported institution objectives and enhanced institution culture; and/or I have collaborated with local management officials to implement policies that improve employee satisfaction; and/or I have tracked local engagement metrics, survey results, or feedback to refine institution programs and optimize resources; and/or I have provided oversight of local training to enhance employee morale and productivity; and/or I have executed engagement strategies at the local level. I have developed engagement strategies that supported organizational objectives and enhanced workplace culture; and/or I have collaborated with high level officials to implement policies that improved employee satisfaction; and/or I have tracked engagement metrics, survey results, and feedback to refine organizational programs and optimize resources; and/or I have provided oversight of organization training to enhance employee morale and productivity; and/or I have executed engagement strategies at the organizational level. None of the above. 5 The Employee Engagement Specialist understands the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (FBOP) mission and functions relating to programs, policies, procedures, rules and regulations.&nbsp; He/she understands how social, political and technological systems effectively operate in order to maximize employee commitment to the organization&rsquo;s goals and values. The Employee Engagement Specialist possesses knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to employee engagement activities.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed campaigns and communication plans to ensure key messages from organization leadership about goals and values were clearly and consistently shared across the organization; and/or I have developed workshops, seminars, trainings, or onboarding programs to ensure employees understood the organization’s mission, structure, and how their individual role contributed to the organization’s success; and/or I have developed strategies through surveys, focus groups, or check-ins that allowed organization leadership to gain insights from employees while reinforcing a culture of transparency; and/or I have organized national initiatives that built relationships across divisions and strengthened awareness of the organization’s internal ecosystem. I have assisted with implementing campaigns and/or communication plans to ensure key messages from department leadership about department goals and values were clearly and consistently shared; and/or I have engaged in efforts to ensure coworkers understood the department’s mission, structure, and how their individual role contributed to the department’s success; and/or I have assisted others with implementing strategies through survey results obtained from employees. I have assisted with implementing communication plans to employees who worked in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted with facilitating onboarding procedures to new employees in a correctional, military or law enforcement operation; and/or I have provided advice to peers by researching policy or assisting with an informational event at a correctional facility. None of the above. 6 The Employee Engagement Specialist identifies employee engagement issues, gathers and organizes relevant data, and determines its importance and accuracy.&nbsp; He/she is a member of an employee engagement action team and addresses workforce challenges drawing conclusions from data in a logical, systematic way. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have built or maintained information hubs where key documents, updates, and engagement resources were easily accessible and organized by topic; and/or I have tracked metrics (i.e., participation rates, pulse survey results, recognition statistics or feedback trends) for organization leadership and Human Resources to identify patterns and take action; and/or I have planned, distributed, and evaluated engagement activities (i.e., employee wellness initiatives, learning programs or internal campaigns); and/or I have maintained organized records on employee feedback (anonymous or attributed) with themes, urgency, or department, to help pinpoint areas for improvement and craft targeted interventions; and/or I have ensured institutional knowledge was captured and shared across the agency, boosting transparency and connection. I have created a local initiative based on employee engagement knowledge and/or resources; and/or I have, based on a local employee engagement metric, consulted with local leadership on the development of an action plan; and/or I have planned, distributed, or evaluated a local engagement activity; and/or I have based on employee feedback, assisted local leadership with the development of a targeted intervention for employees; and/or I have assisted in the implementation of an action to increase institution transparency and/or connection. I have assisted others with creating a local initiative for a department based on employee engagement knowledge and documentation received as a result of a survey conducted; and/or I have based on a department’s need, consulted with local leadership on conducting surveys to aid in employee engagement; and/or I have participated in a department engagement activity (i.e., learning programs or internal campaigns); and/or I have, after reviewing employee feedback (anonymous or attributed), assisted the department in the development of a targeted intervention for employees. None of the above. 7 The Employee Engagement Specialist coordinates with other sections of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) to monitor and evaluate the progress and outcomes of employee engagement initiatives, interventions, and strategies.&nbsp; He/she analyzes reports, surveys and other information related to strategic planning, evaluating problems, deficiencies and inadequacies, and develops reports and recommendations to enhance and improve programs and systems.&nbsp; The Employee Engagement Specialist conducts and evaluates surveys to measure employee satisfaction. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated institution priorities focused on boosting morale; and/or I have evaluated survey results from a local employee engagement initiative to identify strengths and weaknesses within a department; and/or I have planned an employee engagement activity aimed to improve team building. I have established or expanded organizational priorities focused on boosting morale, improving employee retention, and fostering cross-functional collaboration; and/or I have, through data collection (i.e., surveys, interviews or previous employment data), engaged in projects to identify agency strengths and weaknesses related to employee engagement; and/or I have analyzed information and developed and implemented agency-wide initiatives focused on improving employee engagement (i.e., wellness programming and/or team-building experiences) that directly aligned with agency objectives and employee needs; and/or I have worked with agency leadership to secure buy-in and adequate resources for employee engagement initiatives; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted funding requests to meet future needs/goals to keep employee engagement initiatives on track and sustainable. I have analyzed current trends and practices of a department; and/or I have evaluated tasks to ensure they conformed to agency standards and policy; and/or I have completed an assigned survey aimed at identifying areas of improvement relating to employee engagement. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).