Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the response(s) that describe your experience with data collection activities: Answer to this question is required Developing data collection procedures and/or questionnaires / instruments. Monitoring systems and/or reports. Evaluating systems and/or reports. Implementing quality assurance procedures. None of the above. 2 From the following list, please indicate the advanced data analytics methodologies and/or tools in which you have applied experience in a workplace setting. Answer to this question is required Multiple Regression and Correlation Analysis Analysis of Variance Non-Parametric Testing Applied Survey Sampling Randomized Control Trials Agent Based Modeling Game Theory Social Network Analysis Spatial Modeling Geographic Information Projections Multilayer Analysis STATA SPSS R Python Gephi or similar tool ArcGIS Pro or Enterprise SQL Tableau NetLogo or similar tool None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience applying data analysis to management of digital and web platforms? Answer to this question is required I have performed analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have synthesized recommendations based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have formally evaluated platforms based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have employed and implemented recommendations based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have presented recommendations to senior-level stakeholders based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have successfully trained others on the analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). None of the above. 4 I have employed the following quantitative methods for measuring the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of administrative and technical programs. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Creating and maintaining databases Correlation data analysis Graphic data analysis Calculation of relevant rates and percentages Manipulation of formulas in Excel or in other database formats Other None of the above 5 I have experience in the following: Answer to this question is required Process improvements in public affairs events and activities. Improvements in audience outreach and message delivery. None of the above 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 7 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 8 Please indicate the manner in which you have communicated or given presentations. Answer to this question is required Speeches Briefings Conferences One-on-one Discussions Meetings Telephone inquiries Interviews Training Sessions none of the above 9 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of individuals inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.