Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Trust Fund Supervisor is charged with a variety of operations all of which he/she may not be familiar with. &nbsp; He/she will be expected to be proficient in the policies governing this area in order to ensure institutional compliance and provide management with the most appropriate course of action as it pertains to areas under their supervision. &nbsp; He/she must also be able to read, interpret and apply policies and guidelines. Policy and guidelines interpreted were specifically related to Trust Fund, budgeting and/or accounting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied Bureau of Prisons/agency Program Statements and Operations Memorandums to current procedures; and/or I have researched policy questions for the supervisor; and/or I have drafted responses to routine inmate requests. I have assisted in drafting local Bureau of Prisons/agency policy for an area of financial management; and/or I have explained Business Office policies to inmates; and/or I have answered Bureau of Prisons/agency policy questions from vendors providing services to the government. I have monitored Trust Fund monies in areas (i.e., recreation, psychology, education, or chaplaincy); and/or I have assisted in developing Freedom of Information (FOIA) responses; and/or I have answered Trust Fund policy questions from vendors; and/or I have assisted Program Review staff in clarifying local policy issues. None of the above. 3 The Trust Fund Supervisor must be skilled in the use of various personal computer programs for maintaining the flow of work and meeting division or office goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared computerized reports or spreadsheets displaying Trust Fund information; and/or I have used computer programs or graphics software to produce charts; and/or I have developed a position control database to track Trust Fund information; and/or I have accessed and corrected minor problems in executable Trust Fund programs. I have retrieved Program Statements and document from other agency program; and/or I have prepared memorandums or forms using computer software; and/or I have sent and retrieved e-mails. I have generated pre-written financial reports by plugging in information; and/or I have used a database to track correspondence, project due dates or inventory; and/or I have used Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to generate statistical data; and/or I have used tables to qualify and organize financial information. None of the above. 4 The Trust Fund Supervisor must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. &nbsp; This position may require the supervision of subordinate supervisors in satellite locations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained new employees in Trust Fund operations; and/or I have provided direction or reviewed the work of others to ensure compliance with Trust Fund policy; and/or I have independently prioritized work assignments and established a method for completing assignments; and/or I have initiated workflow improvements. I have demonstrated proper work procedures; and/or I have assessed the work of others during an Operational Review; and/or I have delegated assignments to others during the supervisor’s absence. I have identified employee strengths to improve the performance of the unit; and/or I have managed staff responsible for accounting, budgeting or contracting; and/or I have set priorities to accomplish specific departmental objectives. None of the above. 5 The Trust Fund Supervisor must plan and organize the work of several programs in order to ensure the smooth functioning of inmate services within the correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed the receiving and fulfillment of warehouse supplies; and/or I have maintained equipment and inventory in compliance with policy and procedures; and/or I have issued, exchanged, and cleaned standard institution clothing. I have set priorities and deadlines for business office functions (i.e., financial planning, budgeting, billing, and vendor payments); and/or I have managed staff and the contracts of vendors providing services to the government; and/or I have adjusted work schedules to ensure adequate staff coverage. I have, in a lead position, trained and provided guidance to others; and/or I have supervised an inmate work crew in the warehouse, commissary or laundry; and/or I have accomplished several tasks at once by delegating responsibilities to coworkers. None of the above. 6 The Trust Fund Supervisor provides administrative and managerial guidance to the various aspects of the Trust Fund Department, which includes business operations, methods and procedures of Trust Fund and Warehouse, Laundry, Trust Fund Accounting and Commissary System (TRUFACS), inmate telephones (TRUFONE), Trust Fund Limited Inmate Computer System (TRULINCS), and Commissary operations of the Trust Fund Section and coordination of Trust Fund activities, finances, and supplies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed Trust Fund entries into the Unified Financial Management System; and/or I have made entries into the inmate telephone systems or Trust Fund accounting and commissary system; and/or I have prepared monthly or quarterly Trust Fund reports. I have supervised inmate workers in the warehouse, commissary or laundry as they perform their daily tasks; and/or I have performed daily accounting of inmate funds through the Trust Fund accounting and commissary system; and/or I have reviewed Trust Fund operations as a member of a Program Review team. I have worked as a warehouseman in any setting; and/or I have overseen merchandise sales; and/or I have worked as a laundry worker; and/or I have conducted inventory of products. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Trust Fund Supervisor is charged with a variety of operations all of which he/she may not be familiar with. &nbsp; He/she will be expected to be proficient in the policies governing this area in order to ensure institutional compliance and provide management with the most appropriate course of action as it pertains to areas under their supervision. &nbsp; He/she must also be able to read, interpret and apply policies and guidelines. Policy and guidelines interpreted were specifically related to Trust Fund, budgeting and/or accounting . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored Trust Fund monies in areas (i.e., recreation, psychology, education, or chaplaincy); and/or I have assisted in developing Freedom of Information (FOIA) responses; and/or I have answered Trust Fund policy questions from vendors; and/or I have assisted Program Review staff in clarifying local policy issues. I have recommended establishing new policies and procedures related to Trust Fund operations; and/or I have implemented Executive Staff changes in Trust Fund policy; and/or I have developed Institution Supplements for Trust Fund procedures; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information (FOIA) requests or Congressional inquiries related to Trust Fund policies and procedures. I have assisted in drafting local Bureau of Prisons/agency policy for an area of financial management; and/or I have explained Business Office policies to inmates; and/or I have answered Bureau of Prisons/agency policy questions from vendors providing services to the government. None of the above. 3 The Trust Fund Supervisor must be skilled in the use of various personal computer programs for maintaining the flow of work and meeting division or office goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have generated pre-written financial reports by plugging in information; and/or I have used a database to track correspondence, project due dates or inventory; and/or I have used Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to generate statistical data; and/or I have used tables to qualify and organize financial information. I have prepared computerized reports or spreadsheets displaying Trust Fund information; and/or I have used computer programs or graphics software to produce charts; and/or I have developed a position control database to track Trust Fund information; and/or I have accessed and corrected minor problems in executable Trust Fund programs. I have prepared complex computerized reports, spreadsheets or documents involving Trust Fund information; and/or I have provided training on computer programs related to Trust Fund operations; and/or I have recommended a computer program to support new Trust Fund procedures. None of the above. 4 The Trust Fund Supervisor must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in a variety of program areas. &nbsp; This position may require the supervision of subordinate supervisors in satellite locations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified employee strengths to improve the performance of the unit; and/or I have managed staff responsible for accounting, budgeting or contracting; and/or I have set priorities to accomplish specific departmental objectives. I have trained new employees in Trust Fund operations; and/or I have provided direction or reviewed the work of others to ensure compliance with Trust Fund policy; and/or I have independently prioritized work assignments and established a method for completing assignments; and/or I have initiated workflow improvements. I have coordinated staff meetings and training sessions to improve subordinate’s knowledge of Trust Fund operations to include clothing issue, commissary sales, warehouse operations, or inmate accounts; and/or I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance evaluations and address individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. None of the above. 5 The Trust Fund Supervisor must plan and organize the work of several programs in order to ensure the smooth functioning of inmate services within the correctional facility. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed the work of laundry staff in managing the availability of standard issue clothing; and/or I have managed the commissary staff in controlling inventory and conducting sales; and/or I have directed the input and managed control over operations of TRUFACS or the Inmate Telephone System; and/or I have delegated tasks to subordinates with clear instructions concerning authority, objectives, resources and responsibilities. I have set priorities and deadlines for business office functions (i.e., financial planning, budgeting, billing, and vendor payments); and/or I have managed staff and the contracts of vendors providing services to the government; and/or I have adjusted work schedules to ensure adequate staff coverage. I have, in a lead position, trained and provided guidance to others; and/or I have supervised an inmate work crew in the warehouse, commissary or laundry; and/or I have accomplished several tasks at once by delegating responsibilities to coworkers. None of the above. 6 The Trust Fund Supervisor provides administrative and managerial guidance to the various aspects of the Trust Fund Department, which includes business operations, methods and procedures of Trust Fund and Warehouse, Laundry, Trust Fund Accounting and Commissary System (TRUFACS), inmate telephones (TRUFONE), Trust Fund Limited Inmate Computer System (TRULINCS), and Commissary operations of the Trust Fund Section and coordination of Trust Fund activities, finances, and supplies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have keyed Trust Fund entries into the Unified Financial Management System; and/or I have made entries into the inmate telephone systems or Trust Fund accounting and commissary system; and/or I have prepared monthly or quarterly Trust Fund reports. I have supervised inmate workers in the warehouse, commissary or laundry as they perform their daily tasks; and/or I have performed daily accounting of inmate funds through the Trust Fund accounting and commissary system; and/or I have reviewed Trust Fund operations as a member of a Program Review team. I have managed and controlled the accountability of nonessential items in the commissary, laundry or warehouse; and/or I have trained staff on the Information Technology system; and/or I have managed and performed technical troubleshooting of the Inmate Telephone System; and/or I have reviewed the Trust Fund budget for profitability and the proper use of funds; and/or I have reviewed accounting entries to ensure their accuracy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).