Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-110-7 Industry Economist (Pathways Recent Graduate) position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: 1 or more years of post-graduate education EDUCATION: Overall graduate GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) EDUCATION: Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the undergraduate, graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. EDUCATION: Membership in a national scholastic honor society SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Analyzing problems to identify significant factors through the application of appropriate econometric or statistical methods, collecting and validating relevant data, and recognizing solutions. 2. Reviewing and interpreting academic economic research. 3. Conducting exploratory data analysis and providing interpretation, including preparing visualizations, for use in decision memorandums, orders, research papers, or similar documents. A combination of both education and specialized experience. None of the above. Grade: 09 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-110-9 Industry Economist (Pathways Recent Graduate) position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Analyzing problems to identify significant factors through the application of appropriate econometric or statistical methods, collecting and validating relevant data, and recognizing solutions. 2. Reviewing and interpreting academic economic research. 3. Conducting exploratory data analysis and providing interpretation, including preparing visualizations, for use in decision memorandums, orders, research papers, or similar documents. 4. Creating and contributing to publicly facing technical writings such as articles, reports, and documentation. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. Grade: 11 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. 1 I qualify for the GS-110-11 Industry Economist (Pathways Recent Graduate) by virtue of: Answer to this question is required EDUCATION: Master's or equivalent graduate degree. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as experience: 1. Analyzing problems to identify significant factors through the application of appropriate econometric or statistical methods, collecting and validating relevant data, and recognizing solutions. 2. Reviewing and interpreting academic economic research. 3. Conducting exploratory data analysis and providing interpretation, including preparing visualizations, for use in decision memorandums, orders, research papers, or similar documents. 4. Creating and contributing to publicly facing technical writings such as articles, reports and documentation. 5. Evaluating and tracking regulatory policy implications through industry data. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Are you a U.S. citizen? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6.1 If you are not a US citizen you may be eligible for consideration if you meet one of the categories listed below. If you meet one of the categories, you are still subject to the requirements of immigration laws. You must provide documentation supporting your eligibility prior to being hired. For more information about citizenship requirements for Federal employment, please visit the Office of Personnel Management's website at http://www.usajobs.gov/ResourceCenter/Index/Interactive/NonCitizensEmployment#icc. Please choose the one response that represents your status: I owe permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, natives of American Samoa and Swains Island); I am lawfully admitted for permanent residence and seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); I am admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or have been granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and have filed a declaration of intention to become lawful permanent resident and then citizen when eligible. None of the above. 7 You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Economist positions in the Federal government. Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4 year course of study leading to a degree in economics that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus. I have a combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in economics as described in the response above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).