Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement(s) describe your experience applying building codes and standards? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated codes and standards for incorporation into project requirements. I have integrated codes and standards into project requirements. I have verified that project documents successfully incorporate applicable codes in standards. I have reviewed construction for compliance with applicable codes and standards. I have reviewed, developed, and authored codes and/or standards. None of the above. 2 Which tasks have you performed as part of your project management responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Review designs for compliance with U.S. building codes and standards. Inspect construction for compliance with local codes and U.S. regulations. Review and update existing organization-specific codes and standards. Review foreign codes and standards for comparison to U.S. standards and codes. Evaluate engineering programs and projects for consistency with U.S. codes and EPA standards. Develop or author code or standard language. Serve on national codes / standards panels or committees. None of the above. 3 Which tasks related to property construction and architecture have you performed? Answer to this question is required Managing the repair, renovation, or new construction of properties to ensure work is in accordance with established specifications Reviewing, evaluating, and approving shop drawings, samples, and material certifications submitted by contractors to ensure contract adherence Consulting with contractor personnel to resolve unforeseen problems and latent conditions developing during maintenance or replacement projects Reviewing final products for quality and adherence to established specifications None of the above 4 Which of the following building systems and/or programs do you have experience managing? Answer to this question is required Vertical transportation systems Mechanical systems Electrical systems Project development Capital improvement Quality assurance Custodial Contract administration Facility assessment Asbestos abatement Historic preservation None of the above 5 Which of the following tools do you have experience using independently in the context of a construction project? Answer to this question is required Submittal reviews Shop drawings Specifications (CSI) Architectural finish materials Details Elevations Sections Architectural and interior design floor plans Mechanical and electrical engineering plans Security engineering plans Lighting and power data plans None of the above 6 Which of the following tools have you generated independently? Answer to this question is required Submittal reviews Shop drawings Specifications (CSI) Architectural finish materials Details Elevations Sections Architectural and interior design floor plans Lighting and power data plans None of the above 7 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 8 Which of the following building codes have you applied at work? Answer to this question is required Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) Uniform Building Code (UBC) International Building Code (IBC) Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Standards (ABAAS) None of the above 9 Which of the following activities do you regularly perform to acquire new, state of the art ideas and concepts? Answer to this question is required Attend and share ideas at Inter-Agency Committee Meetings. Review Industry Best Practices to identify new ideas. Attend Conferences and Training Symposiums targeting new concepts. Research and utilize existing Inter-Agency Contractual Agreements to find / implement new approaches to doing business. None of the above. 10 Which statement most accurately describes your highest level of experience in evaluating project progress and contractor performance? Answer to this question is required I have never performed this task or function. I have conducted evaluations of minor renovation projects. I have conducted evaluations of construction projects at sites designed as single occupancy buildings. I have conducted evaluations of construction projects at sites with multiple occupancies / functions. I have conducted evaluations of complex construction projects at sites designed as mixed occupancy buildings. 11 Which tasks related to contracting have you performed in an international setting? Answer to this question is required Written contract scope(s) of work Determining government contract estimates Selecting private contractors to perform work Managing private contractors for the duration of a contract Performing quality assurance audits / reviews Reviewing and approving payments to contractors Approves, rejects, or changes contract to ensure adherence with established specifications None of the above 12 I have performed the following duties related to contracting: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planned and organized contractor bidding Set guidelines or was involved in the selection of winning bid Monitored contractor cost and work progress None of the above Grade: 15 1 Applicants MUST meet one of the Basic Requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience: (See the Qualifications section of this announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering that was 1) from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology) accredited school, or 2) that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. I completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in choice A. (Note: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in choice A). I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Note: To be considered, applicants MUST submit transcripts and copies of professional registration and/or licensure to verify Basic Requirements by the closing date of the announcement. 2 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-15 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants MUST meet one of the below listed basic qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education OR combination of education and experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A) I have completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in Architecture or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, AND (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. B) I have a degree in architectural engineering and my completed course work in architectural engineering provided knowledge, skills, and abilities (covering function, aesthetics, site, structure, economics, mechanical-electrical, and other engineering problems related to the design and construction of buildings primarily intended to house human beings) substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in Choice A above. C) I have college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings, AND I have 1 year of experience in an architect`s office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of experience is required. D) I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 5 Based on your review of the basic qualifications listed ABOVE, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education, experience OR combination of education and experience. Answer to this question is required A B C D Note: All applicants WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you will lose consideration for this position. 6 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least 1 year of specialized architectural experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 7 Please indicate the position title(s), organization, and dates of employment where you acquired the necessary specialized experience and/or the dates, name of the college / univeristy, and major field of study where you acquired the educational requirements. (Do not paste your resume here.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.