Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to Apply the Basic Principles, Concepts, and Methodologies of Events Planning.** Coordinated and implemented logistical support (e.g., speakers, travel, catering, space, registration, audio-visual, participant materials) for a variety of events such as: 1) meetings, 2) programs, 3) training classes, 4) briefings, 5) conferences, 6) retreats, and 7) webinars. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, independently coordinated and implemented logistical support for ALL of the events above. As a primary responsibility, independently coordinated and implemented logistical support for AT LEAST FIVE of the events above, including 1) through 4). As a primary responsibility, independently coordinated and implemented logistical support for 1) through 4) of the events above. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to Perform Client Services and Outreach Activities.** Performed client services and outreach duties with individuals inside and outside the organization. This included: 1) applying and articulating organization policies and guidelines; 2) articulating full range of services and resources of the organization to clients; and 3) ensuring the service that best meets client needs. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed client services and outreach activities in an academic, government, public relations, non-profit, trade, or public policy organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; independently determining level of service required; connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs; and resolving any difficulties or complaints. Performed client services and outreach activities in an academic, government, public relations, non-profit, trade, public policy organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources and connecting the individuals with the appropriate product, service, or resource that best meets the client needs. Referred complaints to supervisor for resolution. Occasionally performed client services and outreach activities in an academic, government, public relations, non-profit, trade, public policy organization or corporation. This included providing an overview of products, services, or resources and referring clients to supervisor when appropriate. None of the above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to Communicate in Writing. The ability to prepare a variety of clear, cogent, and well-organized written products.&nbsp; For example, wrote factual, analytic, and persuasive documents in a variety of formats, including: 1) project plans, 2) management reports and recommendations, 3) policies and procedures, 4) official memoranda and correspondence, 5) formal emails, and 6) presentations. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, routinely wrote ALL of the above factual, analytic, and persuasive documents, including 1) THROUGH 3). As a job responsibility, routinely wrote AT LEAST FOUR of the above factual, analytic, and persuasive documents, including 1) THROUGH 3). As a job responsibility, routinely wrote AT LEAST THREE of the above factual, analytic, and persuasive documents, including 1) and 2). None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to Plan and Organize.** Coordinated and implemented a variety of events (e.g., programs, conferences, seminars) by executing the following activities: 1) balanced competing priorities; 2) planned and organized resources and time; 3) tracked deadlines; 4) monitored and evaluated project activities; 5) anticipated problems in advance; 6) addressed unanticipated issues that arose; and 7) maintained event records, files, and documentation. Answer to this question is required Independently coordinated and implemented a variety of events and, in doing so, performed ALL of the activities listed above. This also included advising and making recommendations on ways to improve operations, systems, and procedures. As a key team member, coordinated and implemented a variety of events and, in doing so, performed MOST of the activities listed above, including 1) through 3). As a key team member, coordinated and implemented a variety of events and, in doing so, performed activities 1) through 3) above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).