Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 Which of the following BEST describes your proficiency in reading Mandarin Chinese? Answer to this question is required I have no proficiency. I have memorized proficiency (I recognize all the letters in the printed version of an alphabetic system and high-frequency elements of a syllabary or character system). I have elementary proficiency (I can read very simple connected written material with sufficient comprehension to understand simple discourse for informative purposes). I have moderate proficiency (I can read simple, authentic written material with sufficient comprehension to understand most factual material in non-technical prose). I have professional proficiency (I can read at a normal speed, with almost complete comprehension of a variety of authentic prose material on unfamiliar subjects). I have advanced professional proficiency (I have nearly native ability to read and understand extremely difficult or abstract prose, idioms, colloquialisms, and slang). I have native proficiency (I can read on par with a well-educated native reader). 9 Are you fluent in speaking and reading Mandarin? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 I have used Chinese in the following setting(s) and/or situation(s): Answer to this question is required I have used it when speaking with family, friends and/or neighbors. I have made presentations to community organizations in the language. I have made formal presentations in the language in an academic and/or professional settings. I have appeared in the media using the language. None of the above. 2 Which of the following languages have you had experience translating into English? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required French Russian Spanish Chinese Arabic Portuguese Other 3 With which of the following have you performed public affairs outreach as a significant part of your job? Answer to this question is required Senior officials Congress Foreign news media Domestic news media The public Non-Governmental Organizations U.S. Academia Private sector None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your highest level of education or experience in the news media environment? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in journalism or media relations. I have training or education in journalism or media relations but have not yet worked in that environment. I have no training or education in journalism or media relations, however I have experience working in journalism or media relations. I have training or education in journalism or media relations and have worked in journalism or media relations. 5 From the following list of communication activities, please identify any with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have led staff to achieve tactical and strategic goals. I have interacted with and advised senior officials on matters of considerable importance or impact. I have interacted with members of Congress or congressional staff regarding policy, programs, or other substantive issues. I have conveyed information, on background or for the record, to U.S. or foreign news media. I have represented my employer as a spokesperson to domestic or foreign publics. None of the above 6 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with advising personnel on communications strategies for handling sensitive or controversial topics with the media and/or public? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 7 Select the response that BEST describes your ability to develop outreach campaigns: Answer to this question is required I have never planned or participated in an outreach campaign. I helped produce an outreach campaign, but never designed one. I have developed and executed an outreach plan which evolved into an outreach campaign. I have developed and designed the framework for an outreach campaign. I have planned an outreach campaign, seeing it through from start to finish. 8 I have direct and relevant experience in the following: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Public relations Media/Communications training Press event planning Response to media inquiry Media campaign None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing and implementing digital communications strategies for social media properties and platforms? Answer to this question is required I have performed analysis of digital and/or social media communications campaign data (e.g., display, search, DSP, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). I have synthesized recommendations based on analysis of digital and/or social media communications campaign data (e.g., display, search, DSP, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). I have formally evaluated platforms based on analysis of digital and/or social media communications campaign data (e.g., display, search, DSP, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). I have employed and implemented recommendations based on analysis of digital and/or social media communications campaign data (e.g., display, search, DSP, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). I have presented recommendations to senior-level stakeholders based on analysis of digital and/or social media communications campaign data (e.g., display, search, DSP, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). I have successfully trained others on the analysis of digital and/or social media communications campaign (e.g., display, search, DSP, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter). None of the above. 10 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience in analyzing trends in public and media attitudes? Answer to this question is required I have not performed these job functions. I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have helped me to perform these functions successfully. I have performed these functions as a regular part of jobs that I have held. I am highly skilled at public and media attitude analysis. 11 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 12 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience responding orally to inquiries and requests for information or interviews from local, national, and international media outlets? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. 13 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 14 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Students Colleagues Academia Government organizations Congress Foreign audiences Private industry General public Professional organizations None of the above 15 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Opinion piece for newspaper Letters to the editor Press releases and fact sheets Speeches Communications plans Policy guidance Congressional testimony Correspondence Feature articles Talking points Decision memos Brochures Video scripts Books Budget justifications None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.