Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Officer interacts with people at all levels both within and outside of the organization regarding a variety of administrative and management issues.&nbsp; He/she acts as a liaison with other departments within the Federal Prison Industries and is responsible for coordinating efforts required to accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained basic policies and procedures; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers; and/or I have assisted in providing routine information at a recruiting function or job fair. I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have presented working papers to management; and/or I have briefed staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures. I have responded to telephone calls and/or inquiries from office visitors; and/or I have explained travel authorization procedures to office staff; and/or I have exchanged information within branch and/or division staff with accuracy; and/or I have provided suggestions for office processes and procedures to be used by others. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Officer communicates in writing with individuals at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding sensitive and non-sensitive issues.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted.&nbsp; The Administrative Officer must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have generated correspondence for supervisory review; and/or I have prepared and updated telephone directories and staff schedules; and/or I have maintained office calendar as requested by the supervisor. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have composed electronic email to division personnel concerning upcoming events and deadlines; and/or I have prepared a newsletter article outlining a policy or procedure. I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for formatting and grammatical errors; and/or I have completed standardized correspondence; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Officer must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports, logs, memorandums or correspondence to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect, PowerPoint, Excel); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have searched for information from a specific database. I have used software programs to generate electronic email messages to staff members; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific presentations program; and/or I have used a database to track work and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from mainframe or personal computer. I have retrieved information from an established database as requested by the supervisor and others; and/or I have modified formatting within a document created by others; and/or I have successfully completed a training course in Microsoft Word or PowerPoint; and/or I have assisted others with preparing basic documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have utilized office equipment in conjunction with a computer such as copiers, scanners and facsimile machines. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Officer must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities to ensure timely completion of projects and assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified resources which could be realigned to meet new or changing program goals; and/or I have analyzed resources to determine needs of a department; and/or I have maintained a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have performed the duties as an Accountable Property Officer (APO); and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time-frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. I have assisted with analyzing resources to determine needs; and/or I have assisted with maintaining a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have performed an inventory of supplies for a department. I have ordered office supplies, furniture and equipment for a department; and/or I have prepared work requests for the repairs in buildings, and/or with equipment; and/or I have sought pricing from several vendors for products; and/or I have assisted staff in meeting deadlines for travel authorizations and time and attendance documentation. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Officer interprets and applies various federal government rules and regulations as they relate to the administration within the Federal Prisons Industries. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have closed out travel authorization files prior to filing; and/or I have filed and purged material from various files according to retention periods and/or as requested by the supervisor; and/or I have utilized checklists to ensure all required actions were taken and in compliance with policies and procedures. I have keyed time and attendance records for a small workforce; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have assisted others with conducting time and attendance leave audits to ensure appropriate supporting documentation was being maintained. I have corrected time and attendance files for an office; and/or I have conducted time and attendance leave audits to ensure leave is being used and keyed appropriately; and/or I have responded to inquiries about general policies; and/or I have completed purchase requests for office supplies. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Officer interacts with people at all levels both within and outside of the organization regarding a variety of administrative and management issues. &nbsp; He/she acts as a liaison with other departments within the Federal Prison Industries and is responsible for coordinating efforts required to accomplish assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have explained basic policies and procedures; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers; and/or I have assisted in providing routine information at a recruiting function or job fair. I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures for departmental staff; and/or I have presented working papers to management; and/or I have briefed staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures. I have facilitated a presentation during Annual Training; and/or I have advised managers and executive staff on position management or budgetary issues; and/or I have presented briefings to management during department head meetings; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other offices of the organization to obtain information required to complete assignments; and/or I have represented the agency/organization at a recruitment event. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Officer communicates in writing with individuals at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding sensitive and non-sensitive issues. &nbsp; He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. &nbsp; The Administrative Officer must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for formatting and grammatical errors; and/or I have completed standardized correspondence; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. I have composed electronic email to division staff about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries from external organizations; and/or I have prepared an after action report based on audit findings; and/or I have composed memorandums regarding policy changes; and/or I have prepared reports for managerial/executive staff meetings. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have composed electronic email to division personnel concerning upcoming events and deadlines; and/or I have prepared a newsletter article outlining a policy or procedure. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Officer must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports, logs, memorandums or correspondence to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered data using basic programs (i.e., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect, PowerPoint, Excel); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using a variety of word processing programs; and/or I have searched for information from a specific database. I have used software programs to generate electronic email messages to staff members; and/or I have assisted in creating a presentation using a specific presentations program; and/or I have used a database to track work and project completion dates; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from mainframe or personal computer. I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system or spreadsheet; and/or I have prepared a presentation which included slides, graphs, and charts using multiple presentation software packages; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency specific database to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Officer must effectively allocate time for multiple projects and establish priorities to ensure timely completion of projects and assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined the resources needed for a project; and/or I have monitored workloads to prioritize schedules and coordinate assignments; and/or I have tracked expenditures for office budget; and/or I have exceeded internal or policy dictated deadlines on assignments; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete last minute assignments. I have assisted with analyzing resources to determine needs; and/or I have assisted with maintaining a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have performed an inventory of supplies for a department. I have identified resources which could be realigned to meet new or changing program goals; and/or I have analyzed resources to determine needs of a department; and/or I have maintained a financial ledger to allocate funds; and/or I have performed the duties as an Accountable Property Officer (APO); and/or I have responded to correspondence within required time-frames; and/or I have prioritized tasks depending on requests/needs; and/or I have met internal deadlines. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Officer interprets and applies various federal government rules and regulations as they relate to the administration within the Federal Prisons Industries. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have corrected time and attendance files for an office; and/or I have conducted time and attendance leave audits to ensure leave is being used and keyed appropriately; and/or I have responded to inquiries about general policies; and/or I have completed purchase requests for office supplies. I have prepared and monitored travel vouchers in accordance with applicable regulations; and/or I have analyzed guidelines to ensure adherence to federal regulations in requesting personnel actions; and/or I have reviewed purchase requests to determine need and accuracy. I have keyed time and attendance records for a small workforce; and/or I have made hotel reservations based on per diem requirements; and/or I have assisted others with conducting time and attendance leave audits to ensure appropriate supporting documentation was being maintained. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).