Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I am proficient in constructing large woodworking projects that require the use of different wood types and detailed joinery.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you proficient in advanced carpentry techniques, including layout, framing and the safe operation of hand and power tools in accordance with industry standards? Answer to this question is required True False 3 Which of the following functions can you NOT perform? If multiple items apply, choose the one closest to the top of the list that is still accurate.&nbsp; By selecting, you are indicating that you cannot perform this function. If you can perform all functions, choose the last item.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Work indoors and outdoors in all weather types. Operate carpentry tools safely. Stand for long periods of time on the job site in hot or cold and/or dusty areas. Work on scaffolding and at heights up to 80 degrees off the floor. Lift objects weighing up to 50 pounds. Work in areas with exposure to eye, skin, nose and lung irritation from glue, bonding chemicals and vapors. Ability to work occasional duty time outside of normal work hours. I can perform all of the above functions. 4 Which of the following have you been responsible for performing?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Framing (walls, floors, roofs) Reading and interpreting blueprints, drawings, and specs Layouts and measurements to be square, level, and plumb Installation of doors, windows and trim Cabinetry and finish carpentry Drywall hanging and finishing (basic) Flooring installation (wood, laminate, subfloor systems, base) 5 Which of the following have you used on a regular basis in order to effect repairs or install materials? Answer to this question is required Building plans Construction blueprints Engineering drawings Material data safety sheet (MSDS) Repair manuals Verbal/personal instructions from a supervisor or technical lead Written work orders Other resources not listed here None of these 6 Which of the following have you used on a regular basis to interpret the details and scale of a design? Answer to this question is required AutoCAD Plans Sketchup Hand drawings Other methods None of these 7 Complete the following sentence accurately: &ldquo;I have used a _____________ on a daily basis to complete my work.&rdquo; Answer to this question is required table saw radial saw band saw panel saw panel router jointer wood lathe drill press mortise or tenon machine surface planer disc and drum sander tool not listed here none of these 8 I have used ____________ to build furniture, cabinets or architectural elements. Answer to this question is required birch drywall ipea mahogany pine plastic laminates plywood red oak vinyl composition tile white oak wood composite material other materials not listed here none of these materials 9 I have used ___________ to fabricate cases, panels, or graphics. Answer to this question is required wood metal plastic glass other materials none of these 10 I have determined what materials need to be acquired so that objects can be constructed. Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.