Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Highest Education Level Completed Answer to this question is required No Formal Education (01) Elementary School Completed (02) Some High School (03) High School Graduate (04) Terminal Occup Prog-No Cert (05) Terminal Occup Prog-Cert (06) Some College - less than 1 Yr (07) One Year College (08) Two Years College (09) Associate Degree (10) Three Years College (11) Four Years College (12) Bachelor Degree (13) Post Bachelors (14) First Professional (15) Post-First Professional (16) Masters Degree (17) Post Masters (18) Sixth Year Degree (19) Post Sixth Year (20) Doctorate Degree (21) Post Doctorate (22) Undergraduate Study 2 Please CLICK HERE for a list of undergraduate schools from which you can copy and paste your school and school code into the box. Maximum length of 100 characters. 3 Please copy the complete name from OUR LIST to choose your first undergraduate major. Maximum length of 100 characters. 4 Please copy the complete name from OUR LIST to choose your second undergraduate major or minor. Maximum length of 100 characters. 5 Date you received your undergraduate degree. Graduate Study 6 Find your graduate school from OUR LIST Please click on your school's name and it will be inserted in the text box below. Maximum length of 100 characters. 7 Please copy the complete name from THIS LIST to choose your first graduate major. Maximum length of 100 characters. 8 Please copy the complete name from THIS LIST to choose your second graduate major or minor. Maximum length of 100 characters. 9 Date you received your graduate degree. Attestation and Release of Information and Liability I certify all information and documentation submitted by me in this application is true, accurate and complete, to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I will immediately submit any changes that may occur. I acknowledge that any material misstatements in or omission from this application may constitute cause for denial of my application. (Please note: Incomplete applications will not be processed). I hereby release from liability any and all individuals including all representatives of the Bureau of Medical Services and its professional staff for their acts performed in good faith and without malice in connection with evaluating or action concerning my application and my credentials and qualifications. I hereby release from liability any and all individuals and organizations who, in good faith and without malice, provide information to the Bureau of Medical Services concerning my professional practice, competence, ethics, character and other qualifications for staff appointment and clinical privileges, and I hereby consent to the release of any and all such information. 10 I agree with the above statement. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.