Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Have you been responsible for designing automated, ad-hoc reports to include assignment status, completed tasks, tasks failing to meet required deadlines and those having conflicts with other scheduled activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you been responsible for using analytical and evaluative techniques to identify, consider and resolve procedural issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience building consensus among a large group of people with diverse viewpoints who do not report to you? Answer to this question is required True False 5 Have you prepared, or helped to prepare, organizational, corporate or government budget submissions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you ever been part of designing a museum program intended for first-time audiences? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you ever been part of designing a museum program intended to deepen understanding of art in for general, non-academic, participants? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Choose the statement that best matches your experience with making formal presentations. Answer to this question is required I have limited experience in making presentations about routine issues within my organization. I have experience in making presentations about routine, operational issues of a practical or procedural nature to officials in my immediate organization, or to peers external to my organization. I have experience in making presentations on routine issues with complex elements to senior officials in my organization. I have experience in making presentations on complex issues and programs, some of which may be of a controversial or sensitive nature, to senior officials in my organization. I have extensive experience in making presentations on complex issues and programs, some of which may be of a controversial and sensitive nature, to a wide range of junior and senior individuals, inside and outside of the organization. 9 I possess the skill and knowledge in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques sufficient to design, execute, analyze and report on program research? Answer to this question is required True False 10 Have you played a key role in helping a museum or cultural institution to assess the makeup of its offerings, programs or collections and then in offering solutions as part of a change process? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 11 Which of the following best describes how you have provided customer service to internal and/or external customers? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have collaborated with customers to develop and implement solutions that will benefit everyone. I have worked with customers to develop realistic objectives or timeframes. I have referred customers to appropriate departments or people for assistance. I have implemented processes to help serve customers more effectively. 12 Do you have experience delivering clear, effective communication in an organizational setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.