Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades 1 Please select which of the following licenses, certifications or registrations you possess: Answer to this question is required Licensed Professional Engineer (PE) Registered Architect (RA) Project Management Professional (PMP) Registered Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design accredited professional (LEED) Certified Facilities Manager Member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA I do not possess any of the licenses, registrations or certifications above. 2 Do have experience with applying the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) to new construction and/or existing buildings systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you independently performed quality assurance and quality control on construction documents? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which design activities have you performed for a historically significant monumental building? Answer to this question is required Developed technical specifications Developed designs within preservation policy guidelines Developed general provisions (e.g. client needs, restrictions and limitations None of the above 5 Select the choice that best describes your experience and/or training in security infrastructure and/or critical infrastructure program management. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 6 Do you have experience managing a design or construction project that is in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience managing a design or construction project on a facility that has multiple buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 9 I managed a project requiring extensive coordination of internal staff and contractors that was completed on time and within budget. Answer to this question is required True 9.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. False 10 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Monitored A/E contractor performance for effectiveness in meeting contractual, functional and technical requirements. Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 11 Select the project planning activities you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Identified project requirements Developed project plans Created project schedules and timelines Developed project budgets Developed programming documents Developed project specifications Reviewed construction documents Coordinated engineering consultant’s documents for inclusion in construction documents Inspected completed work products None of the above 12 Select the elements of a project management plan that you have developed. Answer to this question is required Scope of Work Schedule of project activities Milestones and deadlines Project budgets Required resources Quality standards Safety plan Communication plan Risk management plan None of the above 13 I have made binding decisions within my scope of authority on a regular and recurring basis to resolve project issues in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Do you have experience with the procurement of design-build and design-bid-build construction projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have independently administered contracts of a less complex nature [e.g., actions under simplified acquisition procedures (SAP), mandatory sources of supply]. I have independently administered contracts of a complex nature [e.g., contracts with multi-year schedules, Major System Acquisitions (MSAs)] until final delivery and payments were completed and the contract was closed and retired or until termination actions were completed. I have been granted a contracting warrant and functioned as a contracting officer for construction contracts. 16 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when developing and delivering a project or program? Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Elected officials and their staff External customers and/or stakeholders Direct reports on a team under my leadership Senior Government Officials None of the above 17 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 18 Select the documents you have written. Answer to this question is required Reports of findings Scope of Work, Task orders, White paper, Agency or company design standards Acquisition plan, Project management plan Procurement documents (e.g., addenda, bulletins, plans, board selection reports) Specifications Quality standards Slide content (e.g. PowerPoint presentations) Cost benefit analysis Technical and Non-technical report version on the same project issue Business correspondence (e.g. letters, emails, etc.) None of the above 19 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience writing technical reports? (select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience writing technical reports. I have completed training or education on technical report writing techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have drafted sections of a technical report. I have drafted an entire technical report. I have revised and edited a technical report written by others. I have had final signature authority on technical reports. 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above Grade: 13 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements: Answer to this question is required I possess a Bachelor’s Degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I possess a Bachelor’s Degree NOT in architecture or related field AND I have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses in architecture, I possess at least 5 years of experience in architecture which demonstrated that I have acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture. None of the above. 3 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience assisting Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) with duties not limited contract administration, interpretating requirements, and contractor performance; providing technical recommendations/solutions to architectural/engineering problems encountered during construction projects;&nbsp; and&nbsp; assisting with infrastructure project planning and management.&nbsp; 4 Have you ever held a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have led the coordination effort of architectural and multiple engineering disciplines during design development. Answer to this question is required True False 6 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience managing projects (i.e., planning, programming, scheduling, monitoring, reporting). Answer to this question is required I have no training, education, or experience managing projects. I have training or education related to project management techniques, but I have not yet applied it in a professional setting. I have managed a portion of a project. I have managed all phases of a project with close supervision or mentorship by a supervisor or senior employee. I have managed all phases of a project independently. I have managed all phases of multiple, simultaneous projects. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.