Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Do you have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent, using a variety of software to complete a wide range of actions including but not limited to: scheduling volunteers for programs, managing calendars and appointments, establishing and maintaining a supply inventory, corresponding with visitors and customers in a professional manner, and tracking data across program areas and creates reports to submit to management. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you available to work occasional weekend and evening overtime hours? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you been responsible for scheduling, coordinating, and managing logistics for multiple events on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Complete the following sentence accurately: I have worked with a volunteer program involving Answer to this question is required coordination of elementary school students coordination of middle and high school students coordination of college students coordination of adults museum docents none of these kinds of people 5 Have you ever planned a complex event such as a reception or awards ceremony, of any magnitude? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which one of the following software applications have you used on a regular basis and have proficiency in? Answer to this question is required Eventbrite Adobe Communiqué 5 (CQ5) Microsoft Excel Adobe lnDesign Magnet Mail Eventrac Vlogistics None of these 7 Do you have experience training users on the use of specific software applications? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you created a shared electronic filing system, with a folder structure corresponding to various project stages? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you been responsible for tracking attendance and whereabouts of staff members for an office, or for coworkers that work at separate sites and on separate schedules, on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you recently been responsible for maintaining a database of records, ensuring its accuracy and currency? "Responsible" means you were the technical expert on the information within the database, and you were the highest-ranking person in charge of maintaining it. Software programming expertise is not implied here. "Recently" means in the past three(3) years. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Can you perform the following functions in MS Word without assistance or research? 1) Create and format a document from scratch; 2) Proof and edit a document created by someone else; and 3) Insert a picture or spreadsheet. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Can you perform all of the following functions in MS Excel without assistance or research? 1) Create a spreadsheet from scratch; 2) Format a spreadsheet to be attractive to the eye in print form; 3) Insert a simple SUM or PRODUCT equation; and 4) Insert a row or column. Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Do you have experience providing customer service in a fast-paced work environment where requirements, deadlines, priorities, and resources are constantly changing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following actions, if any, have you taken as part of your job? Answer to this question is required Greeted public groups as part of your job duties. Greeted individuals/customers as part of your job duties. Gave directions as part of your job duties. Gave relevant visitors/customers information as part of your job duties. Offered assistance to customers. None of these actions View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.