Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to Perform Legal Research and Analysis Related to Copyright and Federal Law.** Demonstrated ability to research and analyze legal decisions, opinions, rulings, memoranda, and regulations using knowledge of copyright law, civil procedure, and federal litigation procedures. Prepares clear, well-organized memoranda or digests summarizing key legal principles and provides recommendations for courses of action under attorney supervision. Answer to this question is required Experience researching and analyzing emerging legal issues that are moderately difficult or difficult in order to prepare documents and materials related to litigation. Work product was reviewed and approved by attorneys. Examples: Conducted legal research and analysis on new and amended legislation or complex or moderately complex legal questions. Experience researching and analyzing legal issues that are moderately difficult in order to prepare documents and materials related to litigation. Work product was reviewed and approved by attorneys. Examples: Conducted legal research and analysis on legislation or moderately complex legal questions Experience researching and analyzing legal issues that may arise in the context of litigation in order to prepare documents and materials (e.g. corporate disclosure filings). Work product was reviewed and approved by attorneys. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to Draft and Proofread Legal Materials and Official Communications.** Ability to draft a variety of documents related to legal and factual matters and official communications. These documents include: 1) litigation- related documents, 2) discovery-related documents, such as affidavits and answers to interrogatories, 3) Freedom of Information Act documentation, 4) Privacy Act documentation, 5) formal and informal correspondence; 6) responses to inquiries regarding the applicability of federal laws and regulations, and 7) policy and procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Worked with attorneys to produce ALL of the above documents. Prepared documents and analysis of information including cite-checking, blue-booking, proofing and formatting material utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Worked with attorneys to produce SIX (6) of the above documents. Prepared documents and analysis of information including cite-checking, blue-booking, proofing and formatting materials utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Worked with attorneys to produce FIVE (5) of the above documents. Prepared documents and analysis of information including cite-checking, blue-booking, proofing and formatting materials utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to monitor civil dockets and legal filings.** Ability to monitor civil dockets and legal filings. Answer to this question is required Monitored civil dockets in copyright and/or other intellectual property cases where the client or agency was a party or may otherwise have an interest in the matter being litigated and communicated relevant information to attorneys. Worked with attorneys to maintain status reports on litigation and/or other legal activities. Monitored civil dockets in cases where the client or agency was a party or may otherwise have an interest in the matter being litigated and communicated relevant information to attorneys. Worked with attorneys to maintain status reports on litigation and/or other legal activities. Monitored civil dockets in cases where the client or agency was a party or may otherwise have an interest in the matter being litigated and communicated relevant information to attorneys. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and interact collaboratively with others. Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships and interact collaboratively with others. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained effective working relationships and interacted with others including attorneys, clients and/or claimants both face to face and by phone. Served as a knowledgeable source on matters related to copyright law. Participated in discussions on legal issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information. Had a key role in planning law and policy events, hearings, roundtables, speeches, symposiums, etc., including working with other departments to procure resources. Developed and maintained effective working relationships and interacted with others including attorneys, clients and/or claimants both face to face and by phone. Participated in discussions on legal issues to gather and disseminate information. Helped plan law and policy events, hearings, roundtables, speeches, symposiums, etc. Developed and maintained effective working relationships and interacted with others including attorneys, clients and/or claimants both face to face and by phone. Participated in discussions on legal issues to gather and disseminate information. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan, organize and execute work. Planned and organized work activities productively and efficiently to maximize the quantity and quality of work. This included: 1) working collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate administrative activities of an office; 2) setting priorities, determining long term vs. short-term priorities; 3) negotiating deadlines and competing priorities; 4) completing assigned tasks within time constraints; 5) identifying work components; 6) identifying resources required; and 7) setting deadlines, milestones and areas of responsibility. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing ALL of the above. Planned, organized and executed work assignments including performing tasks 1) through 6) listed above. Under general supervision, completed work assignments planned by supervisors, including performing tasks 1) through 4) listed above, met critical deadlines, and accomplished work. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).