Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Toggle navigation CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently enrolled in an accredited law school? Answer to this question is required Yes, I am currently enrolled as a full-time student. Yes, I am currently enrolled as a part-time student. No, I am not currently enrolled in a J.D., J.D./MBA, or LL.M. program. 3 Please indicate your anticipated law program or LL.M. program (or the equivalent in a part-time J.D. or J.D./MBA program) standing. Answer to this question is required First year law student Second year law student Third year law student Fourth year law student LL.M. (Masters of Law) student I am not currently enrolled in a law program 4 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand, if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. &sect; 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).