Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of workflow analysis, process improvement methodologies, and emerging technologies to support digital collections.** Knowledge of digital tools and resources related to cataloging, database management, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), reference services, performing the following: 1) identifying or contributing to the development of innovative tools and processes for the management and preservation of digital collections; 2) serving as technical point of contact for digital content management work; 3) developing workflows for new content streams; 4) defining, developing, implementing and monitoring plans for the lifecycle management of digital content; 5) working with staff and content providers to define and test efficient data movement procedures; 6) working in an environment of continual changes where digital content types and sources are rapidly expanding; and 7) staying abreast of state-of-the-art developments and advancements in GIS technology. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed AT LEAST SIX of the above tasks. As a primary job responsibility, performed FIVE of the above tasks. As a primary job responsibility, performed FOUR of the above tasks. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to lead complex digital collection projects from acquisition through long-term preservation.** The ability to lead the end-to-end lifecycle of complex digital collections, including acquisition, curation, preservation, and storage for an organization.&nbsp; This includes performing the following:&nbsp; 1) implementing, testing, and improving automated workflows for ingesting, reviewing, describing, and storing digital content access ensuring alignment with unit goals; 2) acquiring digital materials via diverse streams, ensuring all incoming content meets technical metadata and format standards; 3) acquiring, creating and overseeing the production of descriptive, technical, and administrative metadata; and 4) conducting quality reviews and processing files post-ingest, including creating derivatives. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed ALL of the above tasks. As a primary job responsibility, performed THREE of the above tasks. As a primary job responsibility, performed TWO of the above tasks. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to organize, plan, and track digital projects.** Planned, organized, developed, carried out, and evaluated a variety of new or enhanced projects for digital collections, production, and access. Led and coordinated project team efforts in accomplishing this work. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized, developed, implemented and evaluated at least two or more digital projects which had impact at the agency or institution level. Led a team in accomplishing work involved with at least two digital projects. Independently planned, organized, developed, implemented and evaluated a single digital project which had impact at the agency or institution level. Led a team in accomplishing work involved with a single digital project. As part of a team, planned and carried out at least two digital projects. Took a leadership role on at least one team involved in accomplishing the work involved with a digital project. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to use state-of-the-art technology for the conversion, description and preservation of digital assets. Utilized state-of-the-art technologies (e.g., commercial on-line databases, specialized electronic resources, and database management systems) to support the conversion, description and preservation of digital assets. These technologies include: 1) image processing software (e.g., Photoshop); 2) word processing (e.g. MS Word); 3) spreadsheets (e.g. Excel); 4) Microsoft Access; 5) command line operations (e.g. PuTTY, shell scripting, Linux, UNIX); 6)&nbsp; wiki and ticketing systems (e.g., MediaWiki, TRAC, JIRA); 7) MARC Data Manipulation (e.g., Edit,&nbsp; MARC Report,&nbsp; MARC Data, Voyager); 8) FTP software (e.g., Filezilla,WS FTP, WinSCP); 9) Digital camera/scanning applications (e.g., Capture One); 10) image derivative creation software (e.g., ImageMagick); 11) Geographic Information Systems; and 12) Digital Asset Management. Answer to this question is required Identified the need for and applied computer technology to improve work processes and routinely used ALL of the above software in a professional office setting. Have expert knowledge in ALL of the above. Routinely used SIX (6) OR MORE of the above software including, word-processing, and web/internet searches to perform work in a professional office setting. Have advanced to intermediate level knowledge in using the software. Routinely used FIVE (5) of the above to execute existing library operations and programs (e.g., assisted patrons or staff with troubleshooting technological problems). None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products related to the responsibilities of the position. These documents include: 1) planning documents, 2) reports, 3) grants, 4) procedural documents, 5) policies, 6) public relations documents, 7) talking points, 8) correspondence, and 9) online notes and finding aids. Ensured accuracy of information by checking all aspects of the work product. Answer to this question is required Prepared, reviewed, and revised documents relating to digital collections and metadata activities, including AT LEAST SEVEN of the above. Prepared, reviewed, and revised documents relating to digital collections and metadata activities, including SIX of the above. Under general review from a higher graded specialist, prepared, reviewed, and revised documents relating to digital collections and metadata activities, including items 1), 2) and 8) listed above. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).