Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I held an 1102 series position in the federal government at or equivalent to the same grade as this position on January 1, 2000, and am excepted from this requirement. SF-50 OR EQUIVALENT REQUIRED. I do not meet the basic education requirement as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and or post-award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services? Answer to this question is required I do not have this experience. My experience of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures is applicable to pre-award and or post award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services comes from on the job or formal training. My work requires that I use my experience of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and post-award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services on a daily basis. My work requires that I use my experience of procurement principals, laws, regulations and procedures applicable to pre-award and or post-award actions in order to procure a variety of goods and services on a daily basis. I am normally the person tasked with providing advice and insight to others in my office because of my strength in this area. 3 Which of the following procurement and/or contracting functions have you performed? (check&nbsp;all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed or reviewed statements of work I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services I have prepared or reviewed Requests for Quotations (RFQs) or Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to obtain vendor proposals and pricing I have participated in technical evaluation of vendor submissions to determine the most cost-effective proposal I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of purchases orders I have NOT performed these job functions 4 Which of the following best reflects your experience in analyzing, planning and organizing contract actions? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled in performing these tasks on the job. I have trained others in these activities and I am relied upon by others to offer expert assistance. I have routinely and independently performed these tasks as a regular part of my duties and responsibilities. I have performed these tasks on a limited and independent basis. I have performed these tasks on a limited, but not on an independent basis. None of the above. 5 Of the following types of contracts, which have you administered? Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Firm Fixed Price Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity or Requirements Contracts Information technology Exhibition design and fabrication Technical services (e.g., management analysis, auditing, publishing agreements, food service agreements, film making) Competitive negotiation Time and Material (Labor-Hour) Delivery orders utilizing GSA/FSS None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience coaching and mentoring others to achieve results? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally and in writing with a variety of individuals involving the explanation of procurement procedures, regulations, and processes? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in contracting for general goods and services, construction services and restoration and renovation of historic buildings? Answer to this question is required None of the above. I have developed and issued solicitations, negotiated, awarded and administered contracts for general goods and services, construction and restoration and renovation of historic buildings with guidance by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have independently developed and issued solicitations, negotiated, awarded and administered contracts for general goods and services, construction and restoration and renovation of historic buildings. I am considered an expert in developing and issuing solicitations, negotiating, awarding and administering contracts for general goods, and services, construction and restoration and renovation of historic buildings. I have managed performance of this task, and I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.