Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience developing annual budgets and/or multiyear program estimates? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing annual budgets and/or multi-year program estimates. I have education or training in developing annual budgets and/or mult-iyear program estimates, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs estimates as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently developed annual budgets and/or multi-year programs as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at developing annual budgets and/or multi-year programs having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 2 Which of the following choices best describes your experience in resource management? Answer to this question is required I have education, but no specific experience in this area I have been responsible for providing input into at least one of the following: (programming, planning, budget, or execution) I have been responsible for at least one of the following: (programming, planning, budget, or execution) for an organization, sub-unit, or program I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget and execution phases for a major sub-component (i.e., project or recurring task) I have been responsible for the programming, planning, budget and execution phases for an organization (or sub-unit) or program None of the above 3 Select the work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis related to evaluation of data, objects, equipment etc.: Answer to this question is required Assesses the levels of service in terms of demand, timeliness and communications trends to determine appropriate resource allocation. Evaluates communications operations and takes corrective action to resolve problems. Evaluates information technology systems trends to determine if system capabilities are sufficient. Evaluates information technology policy issues. Reviews new system designs. Plans, organizes and directs information technology evaluation studies to develop long range plans and forecasts. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 5 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the Job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 6 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.