Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, awarding, administering, and closing-out contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed organization guidelines to award, modify or close-out contracts; and/or I have assisted in interpreting agency directives and policies on routine contracts or purchase orders; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have used laws to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to supervisor on service and supply contracts. I have applied regulations to the administration of commercial item contracts; and/or I have prepared routine close-out documentation; and/or I have conducted wage interviews. None of the above. 4 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to communicate with people of various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. They must be able to prepare reports, contracts, and other correspondence.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared interagency agreements; and/or I have prepared reports for Federal Procurement Data System; and/or I have prepared contract price/cost analysis; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared unauthorized commitment memos and justifications for other than full and open competitive documents; and/or I have prepared responses regarding missing/lost/stolen property; and/or I have prepared memorandums for annual inventory updates. I have prepared Letters of Intent to Exercise Options; and/or I have prepared memos to program/cost center managers; and/or I have provided basic documentation to be included in the contract file. I have prepared cost analysis and market research to determine the fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests involving procurement; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums; and/or I have written cure notices, show cause, and termination letters. None of the above. 5 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties. They&nbsp;typically meet and deal with contractors, senior corporate officials, state and local officials, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, and executive staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have spoken with vendors concerning price quotes; and/or I have verbally resolved purchase card orders discrepancies; and/or I have briefed the Supervisory Contract Specialist on Purchase Orders. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to others; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement. I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have negotiated on price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have interviewed contractors and vendors. None of the above. 6 Regional Contract Specialist must have knowledge and expertise of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types, the proper clauses and provisions to include in a solicitation, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and managing and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured contractors are in compliance with contract requirements by verifying safety issues in regard to the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents. I have assisted in awarding, administering, and closing out contracts; and/or I have prepared solicitation packages or sent documents to bidders; and/or I have assisted others in interpreting and applying Federal Government regulations; and/or I have prepared market surveys to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, solicitation cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have prepared purchase orders; and/or I have assisted in the development of request for quotations; and/or I have placed purchase card orders. None of the above. 7 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to make numerous independent decisions with regard to determining type of contact and required clauses and provisions, contract award, resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contacts, and contract termination. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected type of contracts; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of contractor complying with contract requirements; and/or I have conducted market research and price analysis in determining fair and reasonable price. I have prepared memos to purchase order files; and/or I have contacted contractor regarding late deliveries; and/or I have assisted in preparation of solicitation/contract files. I have responded to contractor inquiries; and/or I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to ensure accuracy; and/or I have prepared and organized solicitation documents; and/or I have reviewed contract files to determine that requirements were satisfied. None of the above. 8 Regional Contract Specialist must have knowledge and expertise to develop and administer specific contract policies and procedures for a particular procurement or project, or for a contracting operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed small purchase procedures; and/or I have prepared memoranda addressing contract guidelines; and/or I have assisted with implementation of improvements to procurement operations. I have monitored contracts; and/or I have provided information to an organization in meeting established contract guidelines; and/or I have provided oversight for small purchases; and/or I have assisted others in providing routine contract administration functions. I have participated in Program Reviews or internal audit; and/or I have conducted purchase card reviews on various disciplines; and/or I have reviewed documents in purchase order/contract files to ensure contractor compliance. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Exception: Current employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the Exception criteria described. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A or B, nor do I meet the exception criteria described. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to cite and apply regulations and guidelines in formulating, awarding, administering, and closing-out contracts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed organization guidelines to award, modify or close-out contracts; and/or I have assisted in interpreting agency directives and policies on routine contracts or purchase orders; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have used laws to prepare pre-solicitation packages; and/or I have used interagency agreements to establish agreement between agencies; and/or I have provided information to supervisor on service and supply contracts. I have used Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), Justice Requisition Regulation (JAR), and Bureau of Prisons Acquisition Policy (BPAP) in issuing contract awards and modifications; and/or I have followed guidelines in issuing pre-solicitation notices to the Federal Business Opportunities (FedBizOpps) website; and/or I have applied agency regulations to resolve conflict over price, cost, and/or technical issues; and/or I have applied procurement regulation in purchasing diversified types of supplies, equipment, services, and construction; and/or I have used agency policy to determine liquidated damages. None of the above. 4 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to communicate with people of various disciplines and backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner. They must be able to prepare reports, contracts, and other correspondence.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared interagency agreements; and/or I have prepared reports for Federal Procurement Data System; and/or I have prepared contract price/cost analysis; and/or I have documented contract termination; and/or I have prepared unauthorized commitment memos and justifications for other than full and open competitive documents; and/or I have prepared responses regarding missing/lost/stolen property; and/or I have prepared memorandums for annual inventory updates. I have made recommendations for improving policies for property management operations; and/or I have made recommendations for Statements-of-Work to technical staff; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information (FOIA) requests; and/or I have prepared agendas for pre-proposal and pre-construction conferences; and/or I have written correspondence to contractor/project representative on status of contracts; and/or I have written weekly/monthly reports on contract progress; and/or I have written letters or other documentation for contract file; and/or I have written determinations of responsibility; and/or I have issued contract modifications. I have prepared cost analysis and market research to determine the fair and reasonable price; and/or I have prepared amendments to solicitations; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have responded to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests involving procurement; and/or I have prepared negotiation memorandums; and/or I have written cure notices, show cause, and termination letters. None of the above. 5 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to use tact and diplomacy with various parties. They&nbsp;typically meet and deal with contractors, senior corporate officials, state and local officials, technical staff, program managers, cost center managers, and executive staff.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided training to staff in the proper methods of performing and reconciling an inventory; and/or I have coordinated annual physical inventories and verifications of accountable personal property; and/or I have participated in staff assistance visits or program reviews or external audits to advise and improve operations at institutions experiencing procurement problems; and/or I have participated in the negotiation team; and/or I have dealt with high-level business, industry or Government officials in discussing contract issues; and/or I have provided assistance to the technical management team; and/or I have guided new staff and others in day-to-day operations; and/or I have negotiated equitable adjustments. I have provided technical information to program personnel regarding contracts; and/or I have provided instructions and guidance to others; and/or I have negotiated price and terms of contracts; and/or I have conducted a pre-negotiation conference with program officials to clarify a solicitation requirement. I have informed contractors of status of solicitations; and/or I have negotiated on price and terms of contracts; and/or I have provided information to cost center managers to assist in their procurement needs; and/or I have briefed management on the conditions of a contract; and/or I have interviewed contractors and vendors. None of the above. 6 Regional Contract Specialist must have knowledge and expertise of contract functions in order to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types, the proper clauses and provisions to include in a solicitation, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and managing and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured contractors are in compliance with contract requirements by verifying safety issues in regard to the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents. I have assisted in awarding, administering, and closing out contracts; and/or I have prepared solicitation packages or sent documents to bidders; and/or I have assisted others in interpreting and applying Federal Government regulations; and/or I have prepared market surveys to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have processed unauthorized commitments, solicitation cancellations, and justifications for other than full and open competition. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine need for a procurement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policy/procedures that were implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications; and/or I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have performed price analysis to determine price reasonableness; and/or I have executed modifications and issued amendments; and/or I have used the FAR, JAR and BPAP to solicit, award, administer, and close-out routine contracts. None of the above. 7 Regional Contract Specialist must be able to make numerous independent decisions with regard to determining type of contact and required clauses and provisions, contract award, resolving issues/discrepancies affecting contacts, and contract termination. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have selected type of contracts; and/or I have settled disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of contractor complying with contract requirements; and/or I have conducted market research and price analysis in determining fair and reasonable price. I have determined if the agency was following procurement regulations and policies; and/or I have made award decisions; and/or I have determined when to issue contract modifications; and/or I have assisted in settling disputes on contracts; and/or I have terminated contracts due to failure of the contractor to meet contract requirements. I have responded to contractor inquiries; and/or I have reviewed invoices and vouchers to ensure accuracy; and/or I have prepared and organized solicitation documents; and/or I have reviewed contract files to determine that requirements were satisfied. None of the above. 8 Regional Contract Specialist must have knowledge and expertise to develop and administer specific contract policies and procedures for a particular procurement or project, or for a contracting operation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed small purchase procedures; and/or I have prepared memoranda addressing contract guidelines; and/or I have assisted with implementation of improvements to procurement operations. I have monitored contracts; and/or I have provided information to an organization in meeting established contract guidelines; and/or I have provided oversight for small purchases; and/or I have assisted others in providing routine contract administration functions. I have monitored contracts within the Federal government; and/or I have provided routine contract policy interpretation to agency personnel; and/or I have made recommendations for changes to Federal agency policies or procedures; and/or I have participated in a Program Review or staff assist visit, and provided recommendations for improvement to the procurement operation. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).