Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following resources have you used in past work to handle aircraft that are constructed of various materials? Answer to this question is required Equipment manuals Technical publications Personal contacts Archival documents Catalog records Photographs Log book for airplane Mechanics textbooks FAA publications None of the above 3 From the list below, select the item that best describes your level of work experience aeronautics. Answer to this question is required I have participated in volunteer work I have had on-the-job training Aeronautical activities were a small part of my responsibilities in my previous job Aeronautical activities were a large part of my responsibilities in my previous job I have no work experience in the field of aeronautics 4 Which of the following types of material handling equipment have you operated in the performance of your job? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Dollies Pallet Jacks Flat Bed Carts Hand Carts Johnson Bars Gantries Carts Cranes Personnel Lifts Scissor Lifts Other Material Handling Equipment I have no experience operating material handling equipment. 5 Which of the following best describes your level of work experience in artifact preservation? Answer to this question is required I have participated in volunteer work which is equal to one year or more of full-time experience. I have had on-the-job training. I have had closely-supervised work experience in artifact preservation. I have been part of a team that works on artifact preservation projects. I have had independent work experience in artifact preservation. I have supervised others on artifact preservation-related projects. I have no work experience in the field of artifact preservation. 6 Do you have experience managing the preservation and/or restoration projects related to aviation, space or industrial objects; and providing guidance to safeguard aeronautical artifacts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to train and develop staff, volunteers, and/or interns? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have been asked by my supervisor to train or oversee others in the performance of this task on a regular and recurring basis because of my thorough knowledge of this task. 8 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared. Answer to this question is required Activity reports Policy documents Waiver requests Training/instructional aids Procedures and guidelines Journal articles or published manuscripts Research reports Research and/or development grant proposals Formal correspondence (e.g., internal and external communications to high-level officials) Methodology papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) Standardized reports Meeting notes/minutes Abstracts Executive summaries Newsletter articles Other written communications None of the above 9 Which of the following represents your experience giving instructions required to treat collections? Answer to this question is required After receiving an assignment (i.e. exhibit installation), I have developed procedures and delegated tasks to a team (staff, interns, and/or volunteers) to accomplish the task. As part of a team, I have managed aspects of an assignment, directing some staff when necessary. I have never led a team but I have been part of a team to carry out assignments. I have never led a team, nor have I been part of a team to carry out assignments. 10 What responsibilities have you held in regards to presenting training sessions for staff and volunteers? Answer to this question is required I have presented training sessions by myself. I have presented training sessions as a member of a team. I have trained others to present training sessions. I have assisted (but not presented) in training sessions. I have not been involved with presenting training sessions. 11 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead and/or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate`s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following best describes your work experience in a team environment? Answer to this question is required I regularly work in team settings and frequently lead teams in work-related projects I occasionally work in team environments and have led teams in work-related projects. I have worked effectively as part of a team in meeting common team goals. None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience managing a collections management staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience training full-time collections management personnel engaged in acquiring, managing, and providing access to collections and collections-based research results. I have experience as a work leader for teams or groups of collections management personnel. I have assisted in training new employees, interns, or volunteers. I have attended training courses in leadership or management. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in setting priorities among assignments from several different people? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or expereince in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usualy without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in this task. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your experience planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes a smooth flow and even distribution to ensure staff is effectively utilized to meet organizational and customer needs? Answer to this question is required I have performed these tasks as a supervisor/leader/senior staff member. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. My work on these tasks is monitored by a supervisor/lead/or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have no experience planning or scheduling the work of others. I have performed these tasks without supervision and am often consulted by others to assist with these tasks due to my expertise. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience hiring staff and ensuring that they adhere to performance plans, annual appraisals, and Human Resources requirements? Answer to this question is required I have hired staff and ensured that they adhered to all performance plans, annual appraisals, and human resources requirements. I have assisted staff to ensure that they adhere to all performance plans, annual appraisals, and human resources requirements. I have assisted staff to ensure that they adhere to one of the following: performance plans, annual appraisals, and human resources requirements. I have not performed any of these duties. 17 Which of the following best describes your supervisory experience applying guidelines, policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no experience as a supervisor applying guidelines, policies and procedures. I have experience as a Team Leader and have managed staff projects. I have supervisory experience in the use of policies to include performance reviews, one-on one counseling and disciplinary actions. I have experience as a supervisor applying guidelines, policies and procedures. I am considered a subject matter expert in government policies and operating guidelines. 18 Which of the following duties you have held relating to managing and leading project teams of others? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Interviewing and/or selecting new employees. Evaluating the performance of employees Approving time and attendance of employees. Recommending personnel actions on employees. Approving personnel actions on employees. I have limited supervisory experience. I have no supervisory experience. 19 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of collections staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in a collections department and creating work plans and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating the work of subordinates including the development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience interviewing candidates for departmental vacancies. I have experience providing counseling to employees including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counseling memoranda. None of the above. 20 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze data or material workflow processes and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed workflow processes and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of workflow processes and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed workflow processes and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed workflow processes and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of workflow processes and identification of appropriate solutions. None of the above 21 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participating with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success? Answer to this question is required I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job (under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee). I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas and in participating with managers in planning the work of the organization (but have not yet performed this task on the job). I have not done any of the above tasks. 22 Which of the following have you had experience in data analysis? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience collecting data. I have experience assessing data. I have experience transforming analysis into meaningful recommendations. I have independently analyzed workflow processes and identified appropriate solutions. I have no experience with any of the above. 23 Which of the following describes your experience performing project management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with a team to develop project timelines, schedules and tracking. I have assigned tasks and deadlines to a project team. I have tracked resources and supplies. I have alerted management to issues and suggested adjustments to project schedules based on unforeseen circumstances. I have acted as a liaison with other departments and teams on a project. I have been responsible for coordinating logistics on a project. None of the above. 24 Which of the following oral communication tasks do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have taught less experienced personnel. I have pre-briefed senior staff in preparation for decision meetings on programs under my purview. I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature such as standard archival services provided by the unit. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 25 Which of the following best describes your experience maintaining the productivity, quality and morale of a major organization during changes to deadlines, requirements/specifications, budget/staff resources, management philosophy, organizational structure, and legal or policy requirements? Answer to this question is required I have maintained the productivity, quality, and morale of a major organization as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have had education or training in maintaining the productivity, quality, and morale of a major organization but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have maintained the productivity, quality, and morale of a major organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education, or training in maintaining the productivity, quality, and morale of a major organization. I have maintained the productivity, quality, and morale of a major organization as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 26 Which of the following best describes your experience with communication in support of an organization? (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discussed issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with staff to obtain their ideas, transmit management's views to them and to identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. None of the above. 27 Which of the following best describes your experience in communicating orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated orally with co-workers and contractors. I have communicated orally with art or artifact vendors. I have communicated orally with museum lenders and donors. I have communicated orally with researchers and the general public. I have communicated orally with artists. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.