Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts and license for verification at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education and license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 3 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 4 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 4.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-10 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-10 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently a GS/GL-10 employee and I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-09 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS/GL-09 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-09 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 4.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-11 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-10 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or GS/GL-10 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-09. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 4.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 4.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 5 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-11 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-11, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-11 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-11 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 5.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete; or, I am a trainee who has competed to the GS-11 grade level or higher. Yes, I was previously at the GS-11 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level without having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-11, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-11, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-10 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-11 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher. 5.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-11 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e., Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 6 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator communicates on a regular and recurring basis with professional health care providers and administrative personnel from institutions, Regional Offices, Central Office, and civilian health care professionals in the community. He/she provides clinical care to inmates/patients both in person and in a virtual environment. The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator provides feedback not only to the telemedicine primary provider and/or specialty consultant, but also to members of the in-house primary health care team in order to contribute to the maintenance and/or restoration of the inmate&rsquo;s health status.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed department/office staff on nursing issues; and/or I have provided training to co-workers on the implementation of a new procedure; and/or I have communicated the findings of a staff assist visit and provided recommendations for discrepancies to upper management; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to management; and/or I have given presentation at medical conference. I have directed nursing staff care delivery during a medical emergency, such as respiratory or cardiac arrest or trauma; and/or I have presented inmate/patient case information to higher level medical professionals; and/or I have briefed Executive Staff about specific inmate/patient medical issue(s); and/or I have verbally persuaded potentially violent inmate/patient to remain calm; and/or I have communicated time-sensitive recommendations identified during an inmate/patient’s visit to the primary care provider to ensure continuity of care in a timely manner. I have provided information to staff regarding changes in inmate/patient treatment plan; and/or I have discussed with other medical staff ways to present inmate/patient information to families; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to inmate/patient prior to the beginning of treatment or educational sessions. None of the above. 7 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator provides nursing specific technical and administrative expertise to Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) staff at institutions, the Regional Offices and Central Office, as well as to various stakeholders in the planning, coordinating and monitoring of telemedicine services.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with implementing policy or standard operating procedures for a telemedicine clinic; and/or I have assisted other staff with adherence to clinical guidelines/nursing protocols; and/or I have observed and assessed an inmate/patient’s condition and determined the proper course of action; and/or I have provided administrative oversight for telemedicine clinics by assisting with the development of clinical care programs. I have under supervision, provided inmate/patient with guidance regarding plan of care or other health topics; and/or I have followed standard protocols and performed history and physical examination on inmate/patient; and/or I have identified at risk behavior of inmate/patient and advised supervisor; and/or I have implemented recommendations made by a workgroup/committee. I have developed and implemented policy or standard operating procedures for a telemedicine clinic; and/or I have prepared technical/complex documents regarding inmate/patient medical and/or nursing needs/concerns; and/or I have prepared detailed reports depicting or justifying the need for additional equipment, nursing certification/training, at/in a telemedicine clinic. None of the above. 8 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator develops standard telemedicine clinic procedures, both locally and with national peers and leadership, to standardize Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator and telemedicine nursing practices throughout the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed internal Agency documents to facilitate inmate/patient care, policy and procedure development; and/or I have prepared inmate/patient paperwork for telemedicine clinician review and evaluation; and/or I have developed detailed clinic operations and telemedicine polices as assigned. I have prepared written response to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have written a response to an audit finding for supervisory review; and/or I have prepared inmate/patient paperwork for telemedicine clinician review and evaluation. I have assisted others in writing nursing policies and procedures; and/or I have assisted others with writing clinical encounter notes; and/or I have accurately recorded telemedicine encounters in an electronic medical record. None of the above. 9 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator has a comprehensive set of skills necessary in nursing, medical records, quality improvement, and information technology. He/she possesses strong organizational skills and is able to work autonomously, as he/she is required to exercise independent judgment and discretion on a regular and recurring basis. He/she assists with budgetary planning related to telehealth services and provides strategic financial planning by exploring ways to decrease external medical trips, analyzing the needs for specialty equipment, and converting community in-person medical visits into medical consultation via telemedicine when clinically appropriate.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others by identifying contracts currently in effect for telemedicine clinic services and advised on what additional services were required under the Statement of Work; and/or I have drafted documents for review and completion by supervisor regarding staffing or contracting needs; and/or I have compiled data from various sources and formats; and/or I have under supervisor’s direction, assisted with completing telemedicine patient assessments. I have served as telemedicine clinic lead and/or oversaw the telehealth services department activities; and/or I have served as a cost center manager; and/or I have collected information and reviewed telehealth services statistical reports; and/or I have participated on internal Agency committees focusing on improving health care services being provided; and/or I have modified or proposed/developed best practices for the telemedicine clinic environment; and/or I have assisted supervisor with budgetary planning related to telehealth services. I have assisted supervisor in determining telemedicine clinic services needed; and/or I have assisted in drafting documents detailing the scope of work for supervisor review and finalization; and/or I have assisted in compiling data from multiple sources for supervisory review and action; and/or I have participated in telemedicine patient assessments. None of the above. 10 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator develops and maintains professional relationships with multiple partners, to include inmates/patients, health care providers, and correctional leaders. He/she maintains a positive rapport with the community medical contracting facilities, primary care providers, specialists, and other telemedicine staff.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided teaching to inmate/patient who was subject to special protocols to improve compliance and documented efforts; and/or I have coordinated preparation of inmates/patients having special procedures to assure timely completion and reduce missed appointments; and/or I have identified and coordinated with others to obtain supplies or special equipment needed to implement risk mitigation protocols. I have participated in group activities or discussions related to inmates/patients with identified risks, high risk procedures or practices to reduce risks; and/or I have discussed test results and implication for treatment planning with physicians/other medical professionals; and/or I have identified a situation where the level of care provided needed change and made recommendations through appropriate supervisory chain. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have coordinated meetings with leaders of community health care facilities; and/or I have facilitated intra-disciplinary health services coordination to facilitate inmate/patient care; and/or I have initiated and performed staff training in areas related to nursing functions in a telemedicine clinic in compliance with policy; and/or I have acted as a liaison between the inmate/patient’s primary care team and telemedicine providers when questions or concerns arose once a telemedicine clinic visit was complete. None of the above. 11 The Telemedicine Clinic Coordinator possesses extensive nursing clinical evaluation and technical skills to utilize specialized equipment, through completion of formal training and/or hands on application of nursing skills in the telemedicine environment. He/she works with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) Information Technology (IT) and Data Support Team to identify issues with video conferencing system performance. He/she is proficient in operating different telemedicine carts and cameras, including all peripheral devices, and all telemedicine-based computer applications used in the performance of clinical assessments.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exhibited clinical evaluation/technical skills/utilization of telemedicine clinic specialized equipment; and/or I have completed training on telemedicine nursing functions and/or hands on application of nursing skills in a telemedicine clinic environment; and/or I have participated in National Continuing Education Conferences for an area of specialty/training/telemedicine; and/or I have acted as an inmate/patient advocate to ensure technology was utilized to best meet inmate/patient care needs; and/or I have identified and independently resolved issues with video conferencing system performance. I have applied current agency Clinical Practice Guidelines in delivering routine inmate/patient care; and/or I have identified issues with video conferencing systems; and/or I have used different types of telemedicine carts and cameras. I have advised Information Technology (IT) and Data Support Team of issues with video conferencing system performance and requested assistance to resolve; and/or I have generated reports and scheduled inmates/patients for clinic; and/or I have securely transmitted all pertinent information to the telemedicine provider prior to specified clinic date. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).