Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully implemented. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 4 Which of the following tasks have you performed as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Started up and manage projects through completion Established and monitor project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitor performance Anticipated and resolve problems None of the above 5 I have performed the following responsibilities, which are related to effective leadership : Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 6 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems in a work environment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience solving problems on work related issues. I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in problem solving, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. 7 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 8 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 9 In which of the following stages of the security clearance process have you been involved? Answer to this question is required Gathering investigative information through interviews and reviewing personal records in order to provide basis for a security clearance determination. Ensuring all documents are properly completed and logged into a tracking system such as JPAS or EQIP for an adjudicator to review. Reviewed documents and interviews retrieved from a system such as JPAS or EQIP in order to make a final determination on a security clearance. I have no experience in the security clearance process. 10 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 11 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 12 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.