Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have one year of full-time experience at the GS-08&nbsp;level that is close or similar to the work of this job? The experience includes activities such as practical knowledge of mechanical assemblies used in large instruments and/or industrial equipment, and knowledge of machining operations on metals and plastics. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please indicate which of the tasks below you have performed routinely on the job without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required In depth experience in reading and understanding mechanical drawings, plans and specifications to diagnose the cause of malfunctions, make repairs and test results at an astronomical observatory. Experience in reading and understanding mechanical drawings, plans and specifications to diagnose the cause of malfunctions, make repairs and test results in an industrial environment. Inspecting and operating mechanical systems to assure proper operation of the complete system or equipment, identify any deficiencies and repair, if needed, to component level. Operating mechanical systems to assure proper operation of the complete system or equipment and repair None of the above 3 Which of the following statements best describe your experience evaluating, planning, and purchasing tools and materials for both specific jobs and to maintain general stock in a industrial mechanical shop? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have assisted with or performed this task under close supervision. I have performed this task under normal supervision. I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements. I have performed this task as a supervisor or shop manager. I have never performed this task. 4 Please indicate which of the tasks below you have performed routinely on the job without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Checking work orders to verify that all necessary repairs and modifications have been performed Ensuring that needed plans, blueprints, materials, and tools are available so that instrumentation and equipment repair work can be accomplished correctly Using manuals or instructions to plan sequence of inspection during layout, fabrication, installation, and testing of components of equipment. Analyzing test results to locate improperly functioning parts for repair or replacement None of the above 5 Which statement best describes your experience resolving complex issues, by explaining, advocating and/or coordinating with applicable parties at various levels, evaluating alternatives, developing a consensus opinion and presenting and persuading upper management or external customers on the resolution, position or recommendation? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience serving as lead on these types of assignments on numerous occasions by independently performing all of these tasks with little guidance or direction from the supervisor, lead or senior employee. I have some experience independently performing most of these tasks and have served as lead on one or more occasion under limited direction from the supervisor, lead or senior employee. I have limited experience in this area by participating in these tasks by performing one or more aspects of these tasks under close supervision from the supervisor, lead or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing these tasks, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have not had education, training, or related experience in performing these tasks. 6 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working cooperatively and collaboratively with others. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience in this area: I have primarily worked alone I have worked on a team or group with my peers, each designated with a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team or group with individuals from different divisions, organizations, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with a team or group in safety or construction management areas on many occasions to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, information, resources, and responsibility I have led a team or group to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, information, resources and responsibility 7 What is your experience in modifying existing parts, instruments and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience modifying existing parts, instruments, and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. I have some experience modifying existing parts, instruments, and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. I have no experience modifying existing parts, instruments, and/or equipment in order to adapt them to new interfaces. 8 Identify your experience in independently overseeing a diverse vehicle fleet and managing day-to-day fleet operations. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience managing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes at an astronomical observatory. I have experience managing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes in industry. I have experience assisting a fleet manager overseeing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes at an astronomical observatory. I have experience assisting a fleet manager overseeing a diverse vehicle fleet and administrative purchasing processes in industry. No experience 9 Identify your highest level of experience with a vehicle fleet preventative maintenance program. Answer to this question is required I have developed and implemented a preventative maintenance program for a diverse 4WD transportation vehicle fleet. I have used computerized preventative maintenance scheduling programs to manage maintenance for a 4WD transportation vehicle fleet. I have implemented and/or followed a fleet’s preventative maintenance plan that was developed by others. I have performed preventative maintenance checks and service on equipment and vehicles as directed by a supervisor. No experience 10 Which of the following statements best describe your experience evaluating, planning, and budgeting expenditures for a vehicle fleet? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have assisted with or performed this task under close supervision. I have performed this task under normal supervision. I have performed this task independently, as a routine part of my job requirements. I have performed this task as a supervisor or shop manager. . I have never performed this task. 11 Have you estimated labor and material resources and costs for a transportation vehicle repair as a job responsibility? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Describe your experience reading and interpreting mechanical drawings, specifications, or technical manuals&nbsp; Answer to this question is required No experience I have used mechanical drawings, sketches, and technical manuals with extensive assistance from a supervisor or technical expert. I have an intermediate level of skill using mechanical drawings, sketches, and technical manuals to understand the functions of parts, equipment, or systems. I have routinely used mechanical drawings, sketches, and technical manuals on the job in order to understand the functions of parts, equipment, or system, to plan and lay out work, and to aid in diagnosing malfunctions or making repairs. 13 Which reference materials have you read and interpreted to maintain and repair precision complex machinery and instruments? Answer to this question is required Schematics Technical Drawings OEM Manufacturers Service Manuals Functional Flow Repair Diagrams Mechanical System Repair Manuals Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) None of the Above 14 Which of the following best describes your highest level of knowledge and experience as an e ngineering technician (mechanical)? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Vocational/Technical College/Trade School Apprenticeship program(s) Journeyman level On the job training (1 to 5 years) On the job training (more than 5 years) Military service training None of the above 15 Which of the following statements best describe your experience performing precision&nbsp; mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems. Answer to this question is required I routinely perform precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications at an astronomical observatory or other research facility. I have performed precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications at an astronomical observatory or other research facility. I have been trained in performing precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications. I have not performed precise mechanical measurements, installations, alignments and testing on mechanical systems using mechanical drawings, plans and specifications. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.