Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of rules, regulations and best practices to execute strategic planning and program analysis. ** Applied knowledge of rules, regulations, and best practices to execute and manage a performance and risk management program to assess and report on the effectiveness of program operations in meeting established strategic goals and outcomes. Answer to this question is required Independently researched and analyzed best practices and led the establishment and execution of a performance and risk management program to track the effectiveness of program operations and prepared recommendations to support agency/organization-wide strategic planning goals and results. Results of analysis were presented to senior leadership for use in executive level discussion and decision-making and performance and risk management improvements. With minimal guidance and supervision, researched and analyzed best practices, and supported the establishment and execution of a performance and risk management program to track the effectiveness of program operations and prepared recommendations to support agency/organization or service unit-wide strategic planning goals and results. Results of analysis were used for managerial discussion, decision-making and performance and risk management improvements. With minimal guidance and supervision, researched and analyzed best practices for improvement of an established performance and risk management program to track the effectiveness of program operations and assisted with developing recommendations to support strategic planning goals and results. Results of analysis were used for managerial discussion, decision-making and performance management improvements. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to develop and implement risk analysis and management programs for an agency or organization. ** Developed, audited, revised and/or provided analysis of internal controls of a risk analysis and management program, as well as monitor compliance with internal controls over financial management of business processes. This includes: 1) facilitating and coordinating ongoing reviews of financial reporting controls, 2) correcting weaknesses, reportable conditions and providing advisory assistance in the official review process, 3) planning and coordinating annual risk assessment activities, 4) developing short and long-term risk response plan, 5) reporting risk management results to senior leadership, 6) supporting others in the identification, assessment and mitigation for business process-related risks, 7) performing audits and testing of internal controls, and 8) performing audit readiness work for a federal agency. Answer to this question is required Supported the development, revision, and analysis of ORGANIZATION- OR AGENCY-WIDE internal controls of a risk analysis and management program. In doing so, performed ALL of the activities listed above. Supported the development, revision, and analysis of ORGANIZATION- OR AGENCY-WIDE internal controls of a risk analysis and management program. In doing so, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the activities listed above. Supported the development, revision, and analysis of ORGANIZATION- OR AGENCY-WIDE internal controls of a risk analysis and management program. In doing so, performed FIVE (5) of the activities listed above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of financial planning, analysis and reporting to improve programs and operations. ** Applied knowledge of financial planning, qualitative, and quantitative methods to conduct analysis and reporting of data on various processes and programs. In doing so, performed the following: 1) developed budgetary requests, 2) conducted strategic mapping, 3) determined cost estimation, 4) calculated return on investment, 5) evaluated contracts, 6) compiled cost data and benefit projections, and 7) created data charts, tables, and graphs. In addition, developed standard operating procedures and guidelines to identify improvements to programs and operations. Answer to this question is required Experience applying knowledge and performing ALL of the above functions. Developed procedures and guidelines for the improvement of programs and operations. Experience applying knowledge and performing SIX (6) of the above functions. Developed and modified procedures and guidelines for the improvement of programs and operations. Experience applying knowledge and performing FIVE (5) of the above functions. Assisted in developing and modifying procedures and guidelines for the improvement of programs and operations. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to serve as a liaison for an organization and develop and maintain effective working relationships. Served as a liaison for an organization and developed, negotiated, influenced, persuaded others, and maintained effective working relationships to accomplish program objectives. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a wide variety of individuals within and outside the organization with different roles and responsibilities on large, complex projects related to program management and analysis. Negotiated, influenced, and persuaded others with differing views. Led meetings, briefings and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Developed and maintained effective working relationships with a wide variety of individuals within and outside the organization with different roles and responsibilities on projects related to program management and analysis. Negotiated, influenced, and persuaded others with differing views. Planned and conducted meetings, briefings and other activities to further the goals of the organization. Developed and maintained effective working relationships primarily with individuals internal to an organization on a variety of projects related to program management and analysis. Served as a liaison for an organization and played a key role in meetings and briefings to further the goals of the organization. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to perform technical analysis and identify automation problems and opportunities. Conducted analyses of existing IT systems, identified and reported on existing problems and opportunities, and created business cases for recommended IT projects to improve operational efficiency. Answer to this question is required Independently conducted analysis and reporting on information technology systems and provided support in the investigation of automation problems and opportunities. Led the development of business cases for new IT projects. Independently conducted analysis and reporting on information technology systems and provided support in the investigation of automation problems and opportunities. Contributed to the development of business cases for new IT projects. As a part of a team, conducted analysis and reporting on information technology and provided support in the investigation of automation problems and opportunities. Contributed to the development of business cases for new IT projects. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).