Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to administer custodial and operational support activities.** Administered custodial and operational support activities to support an organization. In doing so, performed the following: 1) provided advice and guidance to resolve substantive problems affecting the effectiveness and efficiency of custodial work operations; 2) evaluation of all building maintenance, alterations, deficiencies, and repairs such as: electricity, air conditioning, heating, telephones, elevator service, and special equipment maintained in office space; 3) conducted onsite inspections; 4) created work orders; and 5) developed facility projects. Answer to this question is required Administered ALL of the custodial program activities listed above. Administered THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the custodial program activities listed above, including 1, 2 and 3. Assisted in administering items 1, 2, and 3 of the custodial program activities listed above. None of The Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize office automation software applications.** Utilized office automation software applications to perform the work of the position such as 1) word processing (e.g. Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g. Excel), 3) project management databases (e.g. Access, GovTA), 4) email, 5) electronic calendar, 6) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint, and (Windows), and 7) Internet software (e.g. Explorer, Firefox) to provide general clerical office support. Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above items to perform the work of the position in a department or service unit. Routinely used SIX (6) of the above items to perform the work of the position in a department or service unit. Routinely used FIVE (5) of the above items to perform the work of the position in a department or service unit. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to monitor contract performance.** Monitored the status of contract performance &amp; compliance by applying established plans &amp; procedures to evaluate the contractor&rsquo;s activity &amp; quality assurance inspections by completing the following tasks:1)Aided in the evaluation of contractor studies; 2)provided technical assistance for design, development, integration, &amp; evaluation of various systems for a project; 3)ensure the quality &amp; timeliness of work performed by contractors; 4) participate in the development of statements of work; 5)collaborate with others to issue contract; 6)analyze &amp; assess contactor effectiveness;6) maintain sole responsibility for the oversight of facility related contracts &amp; support requirements (e.g. custodial, trash removal, pest control, recycling, storage, food vending, hazmat, contract labor, carpet, rent, furniture installation, etc.); &amp; 7) within delegated authority, provide technical advisory assistance &amp;/or technical assistant to building contractors Answer to this question is required Served as a contracting officer technical representative or COTR in a FEDERAL agency. Provided feedback regarding ALL of the items listed above. Served as a contracting officer technical representative or COTR in a FEDERAL agency. Provided feedback regarding at least six (6) of the items listed above. Managed contracts for a company and provided feedback regarding at least six (6) of the items listed above. None of The Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked, cooperated, and developed professional relationships with a variety of individuals to ensure deadlines and requirements were met, and issues resolved. Answer to this question is required Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals within and outside an agency, other federal agencies, contractors and/or private companies on topics related to facilities management, operations and maintenance activities, and/or planning, design and construction services. Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals within and outside an agency to ensure deadlines and requirements were met, and issues resolved. Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate administrative activities of an office and to ensure deadlines and requirements were met, and issues resolved. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).