Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describe your highest level of experience directing the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electrical systems. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training performing these tasks. I have completed formal education or training, but have not yet performed these tasks on the job. I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed these tasks as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I am regarded as an expert in performing these tasks, and/or have trained others on how to perform the tasks. 2 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for or in collaboration with subordinates Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and required personal protective equipment (PPE) Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Made promotion decisions Interviewed job applicants for hire Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Recommended personnel actions Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 3 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees Inspected work site for job hazards Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Developed work improvement plans Provided feedback to employees on methods or techniques None of the above 4 Do you have experience managing the performance of subordinates? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which conduit bending device(s) have you used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required &lt;strong&gt;Check all that apply.&lt;/strong&gt; Manual Electric Hydraulic Heat None of the above 6 Do you have experience diagnosing improper operations or malfunctions in electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Please select the choice(s) reflecting your experience performing PC based programming: Answer to this question is required Flow Logic Ladder-Logic None of the above 8 Please select the area(s) where you have performed work independently and with little supervision: Answer to this question is required Use electrical and schematic diagrams to troubleshoot electrical equipment. Install and repair lighting systems (Lutron dimmable ballast, LED dimming systems, HID lights) Install conduit up to 2" RGS or EMT. Install, troubleshoot and repair lighting circuits, receptacle circuits, low voltage, and motor circuits Installing new electrical lines 120, 208V and 480V Installing new electrical fixtures (CFL, LED and Lutron dimmable ballast systems) System start-up and check out for VFDs, and addressable lighting systems None of the above 9 Which task(s) have you performed to troubleshoot electrical equipment and/or systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Read and interpret building plans Read and interpret blueprints Read and interpret sketches Read and interpret wiring diagrams None of the above 10 Please select the choice(s) reflecting equipment you have used independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohm meters Watt-meters Amp-meters Milliamp meters Ground fault indicators Amp probes Frequency meters Surge test equipment None of the above 11 Which task(s) have you performed to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Install wires Install conduits Install starters Install relays Install boxes Install circuit breakers None of the above 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.