Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Please select any duties you have held relating to personnel supervision. Answer to this question is required Recruiting new employees Interviewing and/or selecting new employees Training employees Supervising and/or managing employees Evaluating the performance of employees Making promotion decisions about employees I have not had any personnel supervision experience 3 Which of the following describes your experience in supervising one or more employees? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience supervising multiple employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have some experience supervising employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have experience supervising employees including scheduling work assignments and monitoring employee progress. I have been trained in supervision but do not have any experience in this area. I do not have training or experience in this area. 4 Have you supervised exhibit production staff in a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to use project management tools and techniques to plan, implement, and evaluate large scale projects? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following describes your experience performing project management? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with a team to develop project timelines, schedules and tracking. I have assigned tasks and deadlines to a project team. I have tracked resources and supplies. I have alerted management to issues and suggested adjustments to project schedules based on unforeseen circumstances. I have acted as a liaison with other departments and teams on a project. I have been responsible for coordinating logistics on a project. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and in participating with managers in planning the work of the organization to achieve success? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and in participating with managers in planning the work of the organization. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in formulating short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participating with managers in planning the work of the organization, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have formulated short and long term goals and priorities for functional areas, and participated with managers in planning the work of the organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.