Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing program performance data for major projects or activities in order to monitor and evaluate progress and identify problems in overall program performance? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed program performance data for major projects or activities in order to monitor and evaluate progress and identify problems in overall program performance as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in analyzing program performance data for major projects or activities in order to monitor and evaluate progress and identify problems in overall program performance. I have analyzed program performance data for major projects or activities in order to monitor and evaluate progress and identify problems in overall program performance as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in analyzing program performance data for major projects or activities in order to monitor and evaluate progress and identify problems in overall program performance, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed program performance data for major projects or activities in order to monitor and evaluate progress and identify problems in overall program performance on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. 6 Have you developed or determined techniques for gathering, converting, processing, and reporting data? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you analyzed and interpreted complex rules, regulations, laws, policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following statments best describes your use of computer software programs to produce required program and administrative reports, plans, and schedules? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in using computer software programs to produce program requirements and administrative reports, plans, diagrams, and schedules, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used computer software programs to produce program requirements and administrative reports, plans, diagrams and schedules as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used computer programs to produce program requirements and administrative reports, plans, diagrams and schedules as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in using computer software programs to produce program requirements and administrative reports, plans, diagrams and schedules. I have used computer software programs to produce program requirements and administrative reports, plans, diagrams and schedules on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, managing projects, and reporting status updates to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and managed organizational-wide projects as project manager, and reported status updates to arrangement. I am consulted as an expert in project management. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and managed programs and projects as project manager, and reported status updates to management. I am regularly consulted as an expert in project coordination. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and projects as project coordinator, and reported status updates to management. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and project as project coordinator, and reported status updates to management under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and assisted with the coordination of programs and projects, and reported status updates to project manager. I have education or training evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, and coordinating programs and projects but I have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 10 Which of the following software applications are you are proficient in? Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality-capabilities. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., GovTrip, PeopleSoft, Access). Email (e.g., Outlook). Graphic or presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Acrobat, Microsoft Visio). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus). Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word). None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 12 Which of the following describes your experiences with oral communication? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience responding to requests for information from the public concerning an organizations programs and services I have experience responding to requests for information from high level officials and key stakeholders. I have experience establishing effective interpersonal relationships in order to accomplish work. I have experience using oral communication skills to encourage public involvement in an organization’s programs and activities. I have experience advising senior staff on the feasibility and status of programs and/or projects. I have experience representing an organization at external events. I do not have any of the experiences described above. 13 Which of the following responses best describe your experience contacting others to obtain information? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in contacting others to obtain information. I have contacted others to obtain information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have contacted others to obtain information as a regular part of the job independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have contacted others to obtain information as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives? Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in promoting and maintaining good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups both inside and outside the organization in order to accomplish special goals and objectives as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. 16 Which of the following describes your experience working in a fast-paced Smithsonian Institution or Federal government environment and adhering to strict deadlines? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked in a fast paced environment in the Smithsonian Institution and am familiar with managing inputs from a diverse group of organizations while adhering to strict deadlines. I have worked in a fast paced environment in the Federal Government and am familiar with managing inputs from a diverse group of organizations while adhering to strict deadlines. I have worked in a fast paced environment outside of the Smithsonian Institution or Federal Government. I have training to assist me in working in a fast-paced environment, but have not yet had experience in doing so. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.