Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you led other employees in performing work assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 If you have led other employees in performing work assignments, how many employees did you lead within your work unit? Answer to this question is required 5 or less employees 6 to 10 employees More than 10 employees 3 Select all of the answers that describe your management experience advising and instructing staff. Answer to this question is required Assign work. Direct work. Review work. Develop work schedules Conduct performance feedback Performance appraisals. Initiate disciplinary action Establish Individual Development Plans (IDPs). Staff training. Establish program goals and objectives. None of the above. 4 Can you work, on a regular basis, in temperatures above 90 degrees F and below 32 degrees F? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Can you walk, stoop down, and climb steps and ladders, when required, for a long period of time during the work day? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you available to work shift work, weekends, night shift, and overtime hours? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following best reflect the number of daily visitors to facilities that you have serviced? Answer to this question is required Less than 100 100-250 250-500 500-1000 Over 1000 8 In which of the following building environments have you had the most experience performing Laborer services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Heavy commercial Industrial Governmental facilities Other environments not listed here None of the above 9 Which of the following cleaning tasks do you have experience performing as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Maintaining stock of cleaning supplies. Adjusting and maintaining equipment such as vacuums and floor equipment Carpet and floor cleaning equipment. Cleaning and mixing of chemicals to clean restroom fixtures and floors Cleaning of glass railings, windows and minors. Dust mopping of floors, tile and hardwoods Cleaning of ornamental fountains Assisting loading and unloading debris, trash, equipment and supplies. Removing debris from sidewalks, driveways and parking areas. Degreasing and cleaning of concrete floors. Operation of street cleaning machines. Operate and maintain floor scrubber Operate floor buffer Operate stripping machine Pressure washer operation. None of the above. 10 Which of the following have you used on a regular basis in order to effect repairs or install materials? Answer to this question is required Building plans Safety data sheet (SDS) Verbal/personal instructions from a supervisor or technical lead Written work orders Other resources not listed here None of these 11 Have you used a computerized maintenance management system (CMMS) on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in formulating solutions and making recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of custodial and laborer areas? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Do you have experience applying Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, standards and practices to workplace assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Indicate those actions you have performed as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Checked equipment for safety purposes, before using Donned personal protective equipment (PPE), issued by an employer Blocked off hazardous work areas to prevent accidents among passers-by Completed manual labor adjacent to objects or structures of exceptionally high monetary value None of the above actions View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.