Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The DSCC Operations Manager must be able to communicate orally with high level officials throughout the agency, professional officials of other agencies and divisions with the Department of Justice as well as representatives of other divisions of federal, state and local governments. He/she also supervises a team of specialists, technicians and administrative support staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised movement of inmates via air and/or bus to various institutions/jails across the nation; and/or I have provided subordinate staff and external officials in federal state or local government with responses to questions and interpretations of statutes and case law; and/or I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on site visit; and/or I have analyzed overall operations of employees and unit and spoke often and openly with employees/subordinates in order to accomplish the major objectives and goals established for the unit/section. I have briefed executive staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the executive staff/upper management as part of an after action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with executive staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have facilitated formal training sessions/presentations to nationwide audience regarding inmate sentence computation areas. I have negotiated legal exchanges or custody with non federal and federal agencies; and/or I have served as liaison with the U.S. Marshal Service regarding commitment/inmate movement; and/or I have calmed distraught inmate family members when problems arise regarding sentencing/classification/designation; and/or I have conducted sessions/presentations for executive level employees. None of the above. 5 The DSCC Operations Manager is responsible for reviewing and/or preparing high volumes of technical and non technical reports, letters and other correspondence related to legal questions and complaints by responding to concerns regarding jail time credit, sentencing, detainer, parole, good time, designation process and many other issues. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax and format in order to effectively prepare/edit letters and papers for high level use. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have responded to many extremely technical inmate concerns/complaints which often prevented unnecessary court litigation; and/or I have developed national policy and assisted institutions with writing/developing supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have provided direct written responses to court officials regarding sentencing issues; and/or I have assisted others in preparing a highly technical report/document; and/or I have documented findings as a leader of a Program Review or comparable external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have provided advice/guidance for programs within field institutions. I have provided written responses to proposed change notices for Executive Office’s signature; and/or I have prepared written responses from other Divisions/Departments/Units; and/or I have participated and written a summary of an internal operational review or comparable internal audit in the private sector. I have prepared responses to Congressional or judicial inquiry for senior level official; and/or I have provided written declarations to assist the agency legal staff with court litigation; and/or I have prepared a response to an inmate grievance filed at the headquarters level; and/or I have prepared investigative reports; and/or I have prepared lesson plans; and/or I have prepared answers to interrogatories; and/or I have written recommendations to management regarding legal or policy issue. None of the above. 6 The DSCC Operations Manager must be knowledgeable of the correctional institution management and administration. He/she provides technical assistance to institutional staff and other correctional agencies. On occasion, he/she will be required to provide onsite assistance by conducting a review and evaluation of programs or operational procedures relating to functional areas that fall within the parameters of the DSCC. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an EEO Chairperson in a correctional environment; and/or I have served as an administrative duty officer overseeing the local duty officer program and ensuring proper protocol was being followed; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations/security. I have managed the Inmate Administrative Remedy Program; and/or I have served on a committee charged with the responsibility of developing and implementing a variety of correctional programs and projects; and/or I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institution; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution/local policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have conducted visual/pat and/or electronic searches for contraband; and/or I have participated in a forced cell move; and/or I have assisted in administrative functions of correctional programs; and/or I have, based on a working knowledge of institutions, made recommendations that were adopted to improve standard correctional practices or operating procedures; and/or I have served as institution duty officer and ensured institution operations were being properly followed; and/or I have served in an advisory capacity to upper management and other executive staff regarding issues related to sentencing and/or designations. None of the above. 7 The DSCC Operations Manager is cost center manager for the DSCC and is responsible for administering the budget. He/she must be able to manage financial and human resources accordingly. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have actively participated in budget committee meetings; and/or I have participated in recruitment activities; and/or I have prepared and submitted yearly budget plan; and/or I have provided significant input into staff selections. I have administered cost center budget for the department; and/or I have planned for future expansion and/or revision of the operating area; and/or I have insured adequate equipment and supplies were maintained; and/or I have planned managed department/section’s various functions and ensured adequate staff complement which resulted in savings; and/or I have maintained and reconciled cost center for fiscal year resulting in savings within allocated budget; and/or I have developed program objectives/goals and made adjustments as necessary; and/or I have developed innovative plan that resulted in saving the government significant funds; and/or I have participated and developed long term plans. I have developed, recommended and presented equipment justification to the budget committee; and/or I have led a team in recruitment activities; and/or I have developed a yearly plan for fiscal resources/budget; and/or I have provided input into institution/facilities staffing plan; and/or I have administered the department budget; and/or I have determined the need for and developed plans for organizational changes; and/or I have implemented procedures and/or plans that resulted in significant cost savings specifically for inmate movement. None of the above. 8 The DSCC Operations Manager is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she directly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed an official staff mentoring program; and/or I have developed a class where employees were cross-trained in various areas other than their specific position; and/or I have combined a monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions to improve subordinate employee’s job knowledge and performance; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit/team projects and tracked a subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have incorporated training in various division/unit/team/office meetings. I have directed new training instructors in developing and planning classroom exercises/activities; and/or I have prepared staff performance evaluations which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have served as a supervisor of an organization/unit/team responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. I have assigned and reviewed the work of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit/team; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have submitted formal recommendations for staff awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. None of the above. 9 The DSCC Operations Manager manages the operations of the DSCC and directs employees, including delegating authority and providing general program direction. He/she has national responsibility for ensuring the legality and duration of confinement of commitments to the Attorney General. Therefore, he/she provided continuous evaluation of assigned programs, coordinated mission and other related program activities and decision making which impacts overall operations. He/she supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with employees on a regular basis to provide feedback on their performance and take corrective action where warranted; and/or I have referred a subordinate to the Employee Assistance Program for help after noticing decrease in productivity or unusual behavior patterns; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses. I have coordinated due dates for division/office unit projects and tracked subordinate workload to completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have developed and instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations. I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have provided feedback to subordinates regarding on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions; and/or I have delegated authority to subordinate employees to accomplish the mission of the department/unit/office. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and/or increased morale; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action; and/or I have reorganized staff responsibility to enhance operations/efficiency. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).