Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of folklife, ethnomusicology, ethnographic research, public programming, and/or related fields. ** Applied knowledge of folklife, ethnomusicology, ethnographic research, public programming, and/or related fields, to contribute to: 1) research and documentation projects; 2) development of archival collections; 3) distribution of educational resources and interpretive materials; and 4) special projects. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of folklife, ethnomusicology, ethnographic research, public programming, and/or related fields to contribute to ALL of the above. Applied knowledge of folklife, ethnomusicology, ethnographic research, public programming, and/or related fields to contribute to THREE of the above. Applied knowledge of folklife, ethnomusicology, ethnographic research, public programming, and/or related fields to contribute to TWO of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to support and contribute to professional services for the American Folklife Center's research and programming activities. ** Supported and contributed to professional services and information resources in various media for cultural heritage fields, such as folklife, ethnomusicology, and oral history. In doing so, 1) provided assistance for research projects, research libraries, and ethnographic archives; 2) created or deployed public programming that drew on knowledge of traditional arts and cultural heritage; 3) contributed to field research and documentation projects, 4) used standard interviewing and documentary techniques and equipment; and 5) stayed abreast of the latest research and publications in cultural heritage fields. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the above in contributing to professional services for research and programming activities. Performed FOUR of the above in contributing to professional services for research and programming activities. Performed THREE of the above in contributing to professional services for research and programming activities. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Familiarity with principles or practices supporting public programming in the cultural heritage sector. ** Developed or supported a public program in the cultural heritage sector drawing on the following: 1) familiarity with traditional arts and culture, 2) common approaches to publicity and promotion, 3) site logistics tools or systems, 4) comfort working with artists, and 5) metrics tracking and reporting. Answer to this question is required Developed or supported a public program in the cultural heritage sector drawing on AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above, including 1) familiarity with traditional arts and culture. Developed or supported a public program in the cultural heritage sector drawing on AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above, including 1) familiarity with traditional arts and culture. Developed or supported a public program in the cultural heritage sector drawing on AT TWO (2) of the above, including 1) familiarity with traditional arts and culture. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to produce informational and interpretive materials on activities or collections. Contributed materials across multiple media outlets including written articles, lectures, blog posts, publicity/press releases, and social media communications. Developed content for various digital platforms in the fields of folklore, ethnomusicology, oral history, and/or related cultural heritage disciplines. Answer to this question is required Independently or significantly contributed to materials across multiple media outlets including written articles, lectures, blog posts, publicity/press releases, and social media communications. Developed content for various digital platforms in the fields of folklore, ethnomusicology, oral history, and/or related cultural heritage disciplines. In addition, prepared and contributed to policy and division reports. Independently or significantly contributed to materials across multiple media outlets including written articles, lectures, blog posts, publicity/press releases, and social media communications. Developed content for various digital platforms in the fields of folklore, ethnomusicology, oral history, and/or related cultural heritage disciplines. Contributed materials across media outlets such as written articles, lectures, blog posts, publicity/press releases, and/or social media communications, as well as the development of content for various digital platforms in the fields of folklore, ethnomusicology, oral history, and/or related cultural heritage disciplines. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to support education programs and training. Supported programs and training by participating in educational activities, including planning; scheduling; providing technical advice; and providing logistical support for seminars, workshops, special events, and associated outreach. Answer to this question is required Independently provided educational support and training, technical advice, and resources related to areas of folklife and/or ethnomusicology research to others inside and outside the organization. With some assistance provided educational support and training, technical advice, and resources related to areas of folklife and/or ethnomusicology research to others inside and outside the organization. With some assistance, provided educational support and training, technical advice, and/or resources related to areas of folklife and/or ethnomusicology research to others primarily inside the organization. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to plan and execute work. Planned and executed work assignments in folklife, ethnomusicology or a related field performing the following: 1) assisting with exhibitions and interpretive programs, including goals, objectives, and strategies; development of management plans, and the scheduling of exhibitions and interpretive programs; 2) providing advice and assistance to management; 3) providing reference services for complex research projects; 4) assisting with issues associated with archival collections on folklife, ethnomusicology, and documentary media; 5) surveying and evaluating collections; and (6) addressing complex reference inquiries. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience performing ALL of the duties listed above. Has extensive experience performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the duties listed above. Has some experience performing THREE (3) of the duties listed above. None of the Above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products. Examples include: 1) project plans, 2) research and/or project proposals, 3) reports, 4) published articles in professional journals, and 5) online and print publications for general audiences (blogs, websites, and brochures). Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, authored ALL of the above. As a primary job responsibility, authored FOUR of the above. As a primary job responsibility, authored THREE of the above. None of the Above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).