Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following responses best describes your experience with planning cultural public programs? Answer to this question is required I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center. I have not had experience, education, or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs. I have had education or training in planning and executing culturally specific public programs but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have planned and executed culturally specific public programs for a museum or cultural center that were specifically designed for an exhibit or event. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with collaborative projects and partnerships among organizations and across departments? Answer to this question is required I have experience in managing collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners in a museum setting. I have experience in managing collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with external partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with internal partners. I do not have any experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships. 4 Which of the following strategic planning tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have implemented a strategic plan developed by others. I have developed and implemented a strategic plan initiated by others. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan or unit work plan in order to align departmental goals with the organization's strategic plan. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to changing resources. I have proposed and developed a strategic plan in response to organizational changes. I have collaborated closely with other departments in determining new projects and directions. I have educated/encouraged other departments to try new projects and directions. I have not done any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following best describes your oral communication skill in presenting programmatic goals, reports, policy guidance, and information? Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience preparing and making oral presentations to diverse audiences including higher management (under challenging circumstances). I have developed and made oral presentations on behalf of or to a committee or group of individuals involving an explanation of policies, procedures, and/or recommendations that were demanding. I have experience in preparing and making oral presentations to staff members that were routine in nature. I have experience in preparing and making oral presentations to immediate staff and/or my supervisor. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and implementing outreach programs by and about African Americans? Answer to this question is required I have created, developed and organized outreach programs for African Americans. I have worked as a member of a team that created, developed and organized outreach programs for African Americans. I have work as a member of a team that created, developed and organized outreach programs. I have created, developed and organized outreach programs. I have no experience developing or implementing outreach programs. 7 Which of the following methods conducting outreach and training sufficient to provide technical support for African American constituent professional organizations as well as programs with international organizations and collaborate on projects with other institutions, museums and agencies do you have knowledge and experience? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted oversight related to studies, collaborative projects, and programs to raise awareness and determine solutions that support African American heritage institutions. I have provided outreach and training through work with a wide variety of experts, government and non-government agencies and organizations to ensure consistency in messaging and gaining support for endeavors toward learning and teaching about African American History and Culture. I have provided outreach and training to develop strategic collaborations with and provide support for professional constituent and partner organizations involved with African American History and Culture. I do not possess the experience described above. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience developing annual operating budgets based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs. I have had education or training in developing annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed annual operating budget based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed annual Endowment operating budgets based upon analysis of past performance and forecasts of changing program and related costs as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following describes your experience with performance standards and appraising subordinates in accomplishing the mission of an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed Performance Standards for staff. I have been involved in a Performance Evaluation. I have Evaluated and Appraised staff performance. I have participated in a Performance Evaluation of others. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to plan, assign, monitor and direct the work of others? Answer to this question is required I have experience planning and delegating work to subordinate staff; reviewing work daily to assure objectives are met; assisting staff with serious and highly complex issues as they arise; and making recommendations on employee performance standards and ratings. I have experience planning and delegating work to subordinate staff; reviewing work daily to assure objectives are met; and referring serious issues to a higher level supervisor. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had education, training or experience performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.