Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-05 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-05 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Packer Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools, and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with training of new workers. I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments, estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. None of the above. 4 Packer Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for working with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. I have supervised an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have stimulated interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have shown a willingness to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment (i.e., to determine necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions). I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. None of the above. 5 Packer Supervisors must be knowledgeable of trade practices, alternative methods, production, design, and handling. They must also have the ability to keep things neat, clean, and in order. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated performance of subordinates; and/or I have trained workers in most areas of packing where supervisory assistance was available; and/or I have performed all but the most difficult assignments in the packing trade. I have supervised workers in all phases of packing; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow, work assignments, and training for workers; and/or I have used blueprints and specifications in setting up work assignments and monthly schedules. I have organized material, equipment, and met deadlines; and/or I have arranged, marked, sealed, and tagged items on pallets and in containers and bins; and/or I have packed a variety of items that required limited variety of packing procedures and techniques; and/or I have assisted higher graded packers in preparing and applying preservative coatings to items. I have braced sensitive materials and equipment with containers for shipment; and/or I have determined packing and preservation requirements for non-standard items; and/or I have operated remote computer terminals to receive and transmit labeling, inventory, shipping, etc., data to or from a facility databank. I have assured timely packing and packaging of finished goods; and/or I have kept accurate records of shipments for each contract; and/or I have packed hazardous materials; and/or I have selected packing materials and determined methods of preservation of unusual items. None of the above. 6 Packer Supervisors must have the ability to perform satisfactorily on a job where new, frequent, or changed instructions, specifications, or contracts are received concerning operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have received detailed instructions regarding items to be packed and types of packing materials to be used; and/or I have completed routine assignments with limited review of work in progress; and/or I have checked work orders to ensure items received for packing match items describe in the documents. I have interpreted and followed instructions in regard to packaging the more typical production line items which require standard packing methods; and/or I have performed most tasks independently; and/or I have followed established preservation and packing techniques; and/or I have modified shipping containers as necessary. I have supervised a group of employees and interpreted instructions, methods, and specification for more difficult assignments, such as packing fragile items for overseas consignment; and/or I have detailed knowledge of specialized techniques for preservation and/or custom packing; and/or I have complied with regulatory regulations on preservation and packing of custom items. None of the above. 7 Packer Supervisors must be knowledgeable of all the materials used in the packing trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used standard and specialized prefabricated cartons, boxes, and other packing materials; and/or I have used desiccants to prevent or limit moisture and inhibit corrosion; and/or I have used standard tools such as hammers, pliers, and packing devices. I have interpreted specifications and selected proper materials to meet them or made acceptable substitutions; and/or I have supervised a group of employees in all areas of the packing trade which required a variety of items packed in a variety of containers, protective devices, cushioning materials, method, and techniques; and/or I have used specialized processes such as heat sealers, shrink wraps, and foam-in-place packing; and/or I have selected and applied a wide range of preservation materials such as oils, powders, mists, and drying agents. I have worked as a journeyman packer; and/or I have used chemicals, preservatives, and other techniques to clean and preserve items; and/or I have used woodworking techniques and materials to construct or modify standard shipping or storage containers; and/or I have detailed knowledge of different types of packing containers, protective devices, cushioning, packing, and preservation materials. None of the above. 8 Packer Supervisors must demonstrate past work in light of a safety record, &nbsp;as well as appropriate speed and quality of work levels, safety training, etc.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have operated equipment according to recognized safety practices; and/or I have used protective clothing and devices in work situations around hazardous materials; and/or I have lifted heavy items such as parts, equipment, and packed containers. I have a history of an excellent safety record; and/or I have trained staff in proper safety methods for packaging and packing of supplies and products; and/or I have performed tasks that required speed and accuracy; and/or I have performed tasks that required coordination of hand, foot, and body movement; and/or I have determined weight supports for larger or irregular mechanical items and devices packed to prevent shifting or breakage. I have packed and packaged products without loss of quality and on schedule; and/or I have performed work without evidence of on-the-job injury; and/or I have worked with hazardous materials such as chemical, acids, pesticides, and combustibles; and/or I have followed specialized safety and regulatory requirements and procedures. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).