Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Are you able to qualify semi-annually to carry an OIG-supplied firearm, conduct full law-enforcement activities, and meet the requirements to be sworn in as a Special Deputy U.S. Marshal? Any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic abuse or otherwise cannot lawfully possess a firearm or ammunition and is ineligible for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you successfully completed the basic Criminal Investigator training course at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center or its equivalent? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 From the choices below select the response that best describes how you meet the maximum age requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I am under the age of 37. I am less than the age 37 after subtracting the months of Federal Service worked in a primary or secondary firefighter/law enforcement position. I am a veteran preference eligible, older than the age 37 and I am requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement. I am eligible under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, older than 37, and requesting a waiver to the maximum age requirement. None of the above, the responses above do not apply to me, or I do not meet the age requirement for this position. 5 Which of the following describes your knowledge and skills relating to methods of conducting interviews, interrogations, surveillance, and the preparation and execution of search and arrest warrants? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently conducted fraud, financial, and integrity-related investigations. I have independently conducted OIG or internal-affairs type investigations. I have independently conducted investigations of management officials. I have independently conducted and documented interviews of witnesses to acquire evidence. I have independently conducted and documented interrogations of suspects to acquire evidence. I have independently conducted surveillance to acquire evidence. I am knowledgeable about the laws, regulations, and decisions relating to methods of conducting interviews, interrogations, surveillance and preparing and executing search and arrest warrants. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education or training initiating and conducting investigations of criminal acts involving felonies and misdemeanors under Federal, State, local and/or departmental statutes? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience initiating and conducting investigations of criminal acts involving felonies and misdemeanors under Federal, State, local and/or departmental statutes as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience initiating and conducting investigations of criminal acts involving felonies and misdemeanors under Federal, State, local and/or departmental statutes as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and/or provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 7 Which of the following describes your knowledge of federal laws governing fraud, corruption, and misuse of government programs and your expertise in initiating and conducting investigations involving government procurement, contracting, travel regulations, and the conduct of federal employees? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have independently conducted investigations of fraud, corruption, and misuse of government programs and presented findings to prosecutors. I have independently conducted OIG or internal-affairs type investigations. I have independent!} conducted investigations involving government procurement. I have independently conducted investigations involving government contracting. I have independently conducted investigations involving travel regulations. I have not done any of the above tasks. 8 Which of the following describes your skill and ability in communicating facts, circumstances, and conclusions of investigations, inquiries, and reviews in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have participated in writing investigative reports and other documents. I have independently written investigative reports and other documents. My written products are generally accepted by my supervisor with little or no revision. My written products are persuasive and are generally accepted by management. I have independently written investigative reports which were used by prosecutors as the basis for criminal charges. I have independently written investigative reports which were used by management as the basis for taking administrative action against an employee. I have not done any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following describes your knowledge and ability utilizing technical investigative techniques and equipment?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have used video or audio surveillance equipment. I have used recordings as evidence in case presentations I have collected digital forensic evidence from computers or phones. I have analyzed digital forensic evidence. I have training and certifications in the use of a common forensic tool such as Encase, Forensic Toolkit, or Cellebrite. 1 have not done any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience using knowledge of criminal operations, fraud schemes, and risk indicators to design and lead investigative programs, develop institutional controls, and provide recommendations that inform decision-making at the highest levels. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had experience using knowledge of criminal operations, fraud schemes, and risk indicators to design and lead investigative programs, develop institutional controls, or provide recommendations that inform decision-making. I have designed and lead investigative programs, developed institutional controls, and provided recommendations that inform decision-making on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have designed and lead investigative programs, developed institutional controls, and provided recommendations that inform decision-making as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed and lead investigative programs, developed institutional controls, and provided recommendations that inform decision-making as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.