Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have journey-level experience performing industrial equipment repairs without more than a normal level of supervision?&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience maintaining and repairing automotive and industrial equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience performing this task. I have completed education or training related to maintaining and repairing automotive and industrial equipment but have not applied it on the job. I have independently performed preventive maintenance activities on automotive and industrial equipment. I have independently performed repair activities on automotive and industrial equipment. I have independently trouble shot and repaired automotive and industrial equipment. 4 Select the industrial equipment you have repaired. Answer to this question is required Fork lifts Pallet jacks Garage sweepers and scrubbers Ride-on electric buffers and scrubbers Commercial garage doors (e.g., motor, control) Electric and hydraulic man lifts Pressure washer Snow blower Trash compactors and bailers All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs) Golf carts None of the above 5 Which maintenance activities have you performed on industrial equipment? Answer to this question is required Replaced belts Replaced squeegees, buffing pads, and other attachments Greased bearings Prepared equipment for seasonal storage (e.g., drained fuel) Changed oil None of the above 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing engine repair? Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to engine repair but have not yet applied it on the job. I have replaced basic components/parts of engines, such as filters, distributers, and spark plugs. I have replaced moderate components/parts of engines, such as intake gaskets, and have experience removing and installing complete motors. I have rebuilt engines, including pistons, bearings, and rings. None of the above. 7 Which components on industrial equipment have you replaced or rebuilt? Answer to this question is required Electric motors Gas motors Hydraulic pumps Transmissions Hydraulic cylinders None of the above Grade: 10 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which automotive repair work have you performed? Answer to this question is required Installed drum brakes Installed disk brakes Installed a new tire on a rim Replaced a tire None of the above 3 Which documents have you read and interpreted to perform repairs? Answer to this question is required Wiring diagrams/schematics Hydraulic schematics Service manual specifications Work orders Equipment operation manuals None of the above 4 Select the topics on which you have completed education or training classes to learn trouble shooting and/or repair techniques. Answer to this question is required Hydraulic systems Electrical and control panels Electronic devices/systems Automotive mechanics Welding None of the above 5 Do you have experience oiling and maintaining pneumatic tools (e.g., changing air filter, rebuilding ratchet head)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience trouble shooting industrial equipment malfunctions or failures? Answer to this question is required I have completed training/education on trouble shooting methods or assisted senior workers in performing this task. I have independently trouble shot mechanical equipment malfunctions. I have independently trouble shot electrical equipment malfunctions. None of the above 7 I have assembled and tested new equipment in preparation for use. Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.