Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Do you have at least one year of experience, equivalent in responsibility to the GS-9 level in the federal service, performing digital asset management work within a digital asset management system (DAMS). Digital asset management includes the storage, organization, description, and distribution of digital media assets such as images, video, audio, and 3D assets. Qualifying experience must demonstrate responsibility for digital asset workflows, including creating, uploading, organizing, tagging, and delivering digital assets; applying metadata using institutional standards and controlled vocabularies; and responding to internal and external asset requests. Experience supporting DAMS users, troubleshooting technical and workflow issues, supporting system maintenance and integrations, and training users on DAMS functionality and workflows is required. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the response which best demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for the Digital Asset Specialist at the GS-11 level. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience managing a large collection of digital assets (over 100,000) using a digital asset management system. I participated in the full range of digital asset management responsibilities, including uploading, cataloging, creating workflows, and training users. I have at least one year of specialized experience managing a small- to mid-sized collection of digital assets (less than 100,000) using a digital asset management system. I participated in most digital asset management responsibilities, including uploading, cataloging, providing feedback on workflows, and assisting with user support. My experience is not reflected in the above statements. 3 Have you worked in a library that specialized in fine arts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which one of the following digital asset management systems have you used, for at least a year? &nbsp; If more than one can accurately be selected, choose the one closest to the top of the list, which is still accurate. Answer to this question is required NetX Orange Logic OpenText Piction Acquia MediaValet Optimizely Bynder Canto Terentia Other applications not listed here None of these 5 Which of the following describes your experience in using digital asset management systems? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience in using digital asset management systems to retrieve data. I have experience in using digital asset management systems to enter data. I have experience creating workflows for the use of digital asset management systems. I have experience teaching others how to use digital asset management systems. I have no experience in using digital asset management systems 6 Have you been responsible for cataloging digital image, audio, or video assets in a&nbsp; digital asset&nbsp;management&nbsp;system ? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select the activities, if any, that you have performed while cataloging in a digital asset management system: &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Uploading new assets or replacing old assets Updating metadata for individual or groups of assets Exporting batch metadata and processing the export in an Excel spreadsheet Adding subject or keyword tags to enhance the discoverability of assets Other activities not listed here None of these 8 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience in creating and applying standard and custom metadata:&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following metadata schemas have you used to catalog digital assets? Answer to this question is required Dublin Core VRA Core PREMIS EXIF IPTC FADGI Other schemas not listed here None of these 10 Have you created a folder structure for digital image, audio, or video files corresponding to various project stages or workflow needs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Complete the following sentence accurately: I have applied knowledge in the technical properties of, proper storage conditions for, and handling procedures for: &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Digital image files Digital audio files Digital video files Digital models including 3D and photogrammetry Physical storage formats for digital materials including flash drives and hard drives Other media not mentioned here None of the above media 12 I am experienced using _________ to manage digital image, audio, or video assets. Answer to this question is required computers running on a Mac OS computers running on a Microsoft OS computers running on an open-source OS None of the above kinds of computers 13 Which of the following software solutions have you used to receive incoming or share outgoing digital assets with collaborators?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Direct link from DAMS Kiteworks WeTransfer Dropbox Box Microsoft OneDrive Google Drive Other software not listed here None of these 14 I have been responsible for developing and conducting test procedures for state-of-the-art digital media systems. Answer to this question is required True False 15 I have worked with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations. "Clients and customers" are any individuals who use or receive the services or products that a work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government. Answer to this question is required True False 16 Which of the following tasks have you performed as a regular part of your job?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Answering questions received by phone Answering questions received by mail Answering questions received in person Assisting clients and customers with research needs Troubleshooting technical issues reported by clients and customers None of these 17 Have you directly trained others on the use of a&nbsp; digital asset management system or similar product? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you written technical or workflow documentation so that others may understand how to use a digital asset management system or similar product Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following accurately describes your presentation/communications experience? Answer to this question is required I effectively communicated technical information to an audience of senior decision makers. I persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information, in support of a budget submission. I led training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. None of these 20 Have you ever created use-specific derivative files, from master files? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 I have applied FADGI guidelines when processing digital images Answer to this question is required True False 22 Which applications, if any, have you used on a regular basis to accomplish your work? Answer to this question is required Adobe Photoshop Adobe Lightroom Affinity Photo Capture One Pro Adobe Premiere Pro Adobe After Effects Blender Other software applications not listed here None of these 23 Which, from among the following color spaces, would you use when placing a photo on a website? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required RGB Lab CMYK sRGB I don’t know 24 Have you ever used AppleScript, Python, or any other coding language to create custom actions or batch process digital media files? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.