Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of cataloging principles, standards, and practices for music and performing arts materials.** Used knowledge of cataloging principles, standards, and practices to catalog a variety of music and performing arts materials in order to perform the following functions: 1) searched entries in automated and manual catalogs; 2) created and revised bibliographic records, authority records, and classification proposals; 3) assigned headings to catalog entries; 4) selected and assigned classification numbers; 5) encoded bibliographic and authority records; 6) performed research in the cataloger's reference collection and online databases; and 7) resolved problems and inconsistencies in the cataloging process. Answer to this question is required Used knowledge of cataloging principles, standards, and practices to catalog a variety of music and performing arts materials and performed ALL of the functions listed above. Used knowledge of cataloging principles, standards, and practices to catalog a variety of music and performing arts materials and performed SIX of the functions listed above. Used knowledge of cataloging principles, standards, and practices to catalog a variety of music and performing arts materials and performed FOUR of the functions listed above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of history, theory, and literature of music.** Demonstrated knowledge of history, theory, and literature of music in a professional or educational setting. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive knowledge of the history, theory, and literature of music in a professional or educational setting. Examples would be teaching a college level music course or private students; authoring a scholarly paper for a refereed music journal; preparing a musical score for publication; contributing a chapter or article to a music publication; holding an advanced degree in the field of music; advanced training and proficiency in instrumental or vocal performance or composition. Demonstrated knowledge of history, theory, and literature of music in a professional or educational setting. Examples would be teaching a music course or private students; writing about a musical topic for a publication; holding a degree in the field of music; proficiency or training in instrumental or vocal performance or composition. Demonstrated knowledge and/or college-level coursework pertaining to the history, theory, and literature of music sufficient to perform library activities. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze and organize information and materials and interpret information in a music or performing arts library environment.** Analyzed and organized materials in order to determine appropriate name and name-title entries and appropriate subject headings in a music or performing arts library environment. Answer to this question is required Independently analyzed and organized general, specialized and complex information and materials to determine its relevance, pattern or compliance with procedures or policies in a music or performing arts library environment. Independently analyzed and organized information and materials to determine its relevance, pattern or compliance with procedures or policies in a music or performing arts library environment. With minimal supervision, analyzed and organized information and materials to determine its relevance, pattern or compliance with procedures or policies according to specified instructions in a music or performing arts library environment. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation and liaison duties. Provided consultation or performed liaison duties to help solve technical problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and national or international partners, and provided specialized and/or technical information in the field of cataloging. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and provided specialized or technical information in the field of cataloging. Developed and maintained relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds and cultures, communicating specialized or technical information in a professional and/or an academic setting. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies. Used integrated library systems and technologies to perform library functions, including cataloging services. Answer to this question is required Has extensive expertise in the use of integrated library systems and technologies to perform library functions, including cataloging services. Has demonstrated experience in the use of integrated library systems and technologies to perform library functions, including cataloging services. Has knowledge of or college-level proficiency related to the use of integrated library systems and technologies to perform library functions. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).