Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Examples of specialized experience&nbsp;include the following: (1) Demonstrated subject matter expertise in management and administration of Federal Employee Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees&rsquo; Dental and Vision Insurance Program (FEDVIP), flexible spending/savings accounts, Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance (FEGLI), long-term care, and federal retirement systems. (2) Experience developing and delivering exceptional benefits presentations and employee benefits workshops. (3) Experience administering or supervising a workers&rsquo; compensation program. (4) Experience providing expert guidance to leadership on high-impact employee benefits matters, interpreting statutes, regulations and OPM guidance, and making recommendations that support organizational objectives and agency-wide decision-making. (5) Experience counseling employees on federal retirement programs and other benefits. (6) Experience in developing well-written and well-informed correspondence, standard operating procedures, program materials and other documents regarding federal benefits programs and services. Demonstrated experience delivering effective and innovative work/life programs. (7) Demonstrated ability to supervise, lead and inspire a talented group of employees toward meeting the organization&rsquo;s vision, mission and goals, and to drive a high-performance, high-accountability and results-driven work culture. No 2 Do you&nbsp;have experience with the National Finance Center&rsquo;s Mainframe System and EmpowHR Human Resources Information System? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select all Federal retirement systems in which you have experience determining the correct use of, and explaining the provisions of these programs and clarifying their effect on employees and their survivors. Answer to this question is required Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) CSRS Offset Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) FERS-Revised Annuity Employee (RAE) FERS­ Further Revised Annuity Employee (FRAE) None of the above 4 Do you have experience calculating and verifying Service Computation Dates (SCDs) for retirement purposes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Do you have experience handling Federal Erroneous Retirement Coverage Correction Act (FERCCA) cases? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please succinctly describe your experience performing this task. (in 5,000 characters or less) Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 6 Do you have experience working with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to resolve complicated benefits/retirement matters? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please succinctly describe your experience performing this task. (in 5,000 characters or less) Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 7 Do you have experience working federal civilian and military deposits for CSRS and FERS employees? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following duties and responsibilities have you performed when applying injury compensation standardized principles, practices and procedures? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Administered an organization’s injury compensation program. Analyzed information related to on-the-job injuries or illnesses provided by supervisors and employees in support of an on-the-job worker’s compensation claim. Acted as a liaison between supervisors and employees to facilitate claims. Evaluated suspected fraud cases. Provided training to supervisors and employees on practices and regulations of the injury compensation program. None of the above. 9 Which of the following duties and responsibilities have you performed on a regular and recurring basis.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Counselled management, employees and beneficiaries on program coverage, options, variances in coverage and advantages and disadvantages of benefits. Interpreted and explained to employees the relationship of the Federal retirement and insurance programs to other related programs; e.g., Social Security, military provisions, workers’ compensation and private insurance companies. Provided information necessary to help employees obtain maximum gains from available benefits. Provided individual employee counseling on retirement options, eligibility requirements, health and life insurance and Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) issues. Explained options to employees regarding prior Federal Government service. Represented the agency in external matters both in the public and private sector on benefits programs, including making presentations at retirement and benefits seminars. None of the above. 10 Select the response(s) that describe your experience identifying and analyzing HR problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;Answer to this question is required&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt; Developed comprehensive material for reports, training, briefings or meetings of senior management officials. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations to management officials within the organization. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Interpreted and applied statutes and regulations. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Provided automated solutions to organizational problems. Provided input for HR policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. None of the above. 11 Choose the statements that describe your oral communication skills. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Listens actively; asks clarifying questions and summarizes or paraphrases what others have said to verify understanding. Ensures that regular communication occurs based on the needs of the work, the individual, management or the situation. Uses analogies, visuals and other techniques to tailor communications to specific audiences. Identifies and uses effective communication channels and methods (e.g., presentations, electronic dissemination, social media). Utilizes skill in presenting information, analysis, ideas and positions in a clear, succinct, accurate, convincing manner, as is appropriate with the audience. None of the above. 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.