Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants MUST meet one of the Basic Requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience: (See the Qualifications section of this announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering that was 1) from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology) accredited school, or 2) that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. I completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in choice A. (Note: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in choice A). I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Note: To be considered, applicants MUST submit transcripts and copies of professional registration and/or licensure to verify Basic Requirements by the closing date of the announcement. 2 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-15 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. 3 Please select the response that BEST describes your ability to initiate investigations and studies to develop design criteria in engineering construction projects: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 4 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience reviewing requests for change orders and claims relating to construction engineering projects for technical acceptability and reasonableness of charges: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in reviewing requests for change orders and claims relating to construction engineering projects for technical acceptability and reasonableness of charges. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in reviewing requests for change orders and claims relating to construction engineering projects for technical acceptability and reasonableness of charges due to my expertise in this area. 5 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Statements of work (SOW) Talking points Official Correspondence (e.g., COR Nomination Memo) Technical reports (e.g., Fire Protection Inspection reports) Standard operating procedures, directives, or policy guidance Federal Register notices Regulatory material (e.g. codes and standards) Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Meeting minutes Strategic plans Budget or financial plans Performance measures None of the above 6 Select the choice that BEST describes your highest level of experience analyzing engineering plans, designs, specifications, and exhibits for compliance with established codes and regulations. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this activity. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet performed this activity on the job. I have assisted others in performing this activity. I have routinely and independently performed this activity. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance on a regular basis. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with the design and construction of corporate building complexes? Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted other workers in the design and construction of corporate building complexes. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet perfomed this activity on the job. I have no education, training or experience performing this activity. 8 Please select one response that BEST describes your level of experience preparing scopes of work, fee proposals, and initial cost estimates for major building construction and renovation projects: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 9 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience in planning, managing, and/or providing guidance on civil engineering surveys and studies to determine suitability of sites or buildings for major projects: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in planning, managing, and/or providing guidance on civil engineering surveys and studies to determine suitability of sites or buildings for major projects. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in planning, managing, and/or providing guidance on civil engineering surveys and studies to determine suitability of sites or buildings for major projects due to my expertise in this area. 10 Please select the choice that BEST describes your experience performing structural and seismic design and strengthening of low to mid-rise buildings located in high seismic areas: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing structural and seismic design and strengthening of low to mid-rise buildings located in high seismic areas. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in performing structural and seismic design and strengthening of low to mid-rise buildings located in high seismic areas due to my expertise in this area. 11 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience analyzing existing buildings? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task designing small residential projects. I have performed this task designing large residential projects of 20 units or more and/or small commercial projects. I have performed this task as the primary design architect on large residential and mixed-use commercial projects. I have performed this task as the lead design architect on large and complex multi-purpose facilities comprised of multiple buildings. I have performed this task as the lead design architect on many large and complex public, government, and institutional projects comprised of multiple, multi-purpose buildings. As the lead design architect, I have led multi-disciplinary teams performing this task on multiple, large and complex public, government, and institutional projects comprised of multiple, multi-purpose buildings. None of the above. 12 In which of the following areas of engineering have you had hands-on experience? Answer to this question is required Planning Design Construction Cost Estimating Management / Administration None of the above 13 Please select from the following choices your highest level of experience preparing engineering drawings and specifications for projects. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this activity. I have completed education or training on this topic, but have not yet performed this activity on the job. I have assisted others in performing this activity. I have routinely and independently performed this activity. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me for assistance on a regular basis. 14 Which statement BEST describes your experience developing concepts and preparing preliminary layouts and designs for the development, alteration and maintenance of complex buildings and sites? Answer to this question is required I have instructed and/or supervised others in the performance of this task due to my experience in this area. I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed this task as a part of my job under the supervision of a more senior coworker. I have education and/or training on this topic, but I have not performed this task in a work setting. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.