Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 GS-14: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-14: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the choices below, please indicate the information technology specialty areas for which you have experience providing direction: Answer to this question is required National Intelligence Systems (NIS) Information systems Local Area Networks (LAN) Wide Area Networks (WAN) Cryptographic systems Client-based operating systems and/or applications Server-based operating systems and/or applications Network security requirements IT architecture policies None of the above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with information technology related policy? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with policy research. I have education or training in policy research. I have reviewed organization-wide policy related to information technology. I have interpreted policy related to information technology. I have identified applicable policy related to my information technology area of responsibility. I have been part of a team that developed policy related to information technology. I have independently developed policy related to information technology. 3 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with network security? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, network security I am familiar with network security in general terms I have developed policy defining network security requirements I have defined and implemented multiple network security protocols and/or systems. I have a strong understanding of both hardware and software security tools such as firewalls and intrusion detection I have managed tasks in which network security was a major component of the effort 4 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents under direct supervision. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents independently. I have experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents and have written policy for this process. I have managed and supervised a team that worked on government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. 5 Please indicate all the areas that you have experience related to Cyber Security operational tasks: Answer to this question is required Physical and Logical Network Segmentation Multi-Factor Authentication Network Configuration & Monitoring (signature & heuristics based) Zero Client Architectures Cloud Computing Security Security Operations Center design and management Mobile Device Security Dynamic System Defenses Data-At-Rest & Data-In Transit Protections Data Centric Security Micro Hypervisor Technologies Applications Whitelisting None of the above 6 Select the statement(s) that describe your work experience interacting with a variety of individuals in various situations to achieve program goals and/or solutions: Answer to this question is required I have independently solved program issues. I have routinely provided advice and assistance to individuals within my department. I have been regularly consulted by peers or other agency representatives on program issues. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have served on panels or committees. I have presented, defended, or negotiated program specific mission, goals, needs, or problems with senior management and/or contract representatives. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization. I have mediated or facilitated problem resolution. I have independently planned and conducted meetings. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical or programmatic issues. None of the above. 7 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with evaluating security programs for system vulnerability. Answer to this question is required I have education and training on evaluating security programs for system vulnerabilities, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have conducted oversight reviews on the effectiveness of information security programs and practices to determine system vulnerabilities. I have made recommendations to managers regarding changes in security programs, policies and/or procedures. I have implemented changes to existing security programs, policies and/or procedures to increase program efficiency and effectiveness. I have participated in oversight reviews on the effectiveness of information security programs and practices to determine system vulnerabilities. I have no education or training on evaluating security programs for system vulnerabilities. 8 Select from the following list those instances in which you have used information from a variety of sources to solve a problem. Answer to this question is required Led a task force. Presented facts or findings to department officials Conducted a system/program analysis. Developed recommendations for system changes. Used statistical methods to analyze an issue. Resolved discrepancies in a system/program. Analyzed the effectiveness of a system/program. Developed solutions to meet customer needs. Developed internal control programs/methods. None of the above 9 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience with analyzing current information technology performance metrics to improve and forecast future performance improvements? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, analyzing performance measures and metrics I have assisted with the analysis of current performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and recommended improvements to performance measures and metrics I have analyzed current systems and been responsible for managing the implementation of appropriate performance measures and metrics I have analyzed system recommendations for improved performance measures and metrics and prioritized the shift in resources required for implementation 10 Please select the response that BEST reflects your experience planning, organizing, and managing a security program. Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in planning, organizing, and managing security programs, however, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating my ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to plan and organize security programs. I have worked with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific security programs. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate security programs and/or manage practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of highly visible security programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.