Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose one answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. In addition to being in, or related to, the position being filled, this experience is at or least equivalent to GS-6 level in the Federal service. I do not possess the one year of required specialized experience. 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of basic preservation techniques for photographic collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls? Answer to this question is required I have supervised staff members in the basic preservation techniques for photographic collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have applied basic preservation techniques for photographic collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have assisted in the application of basic preservation techniques for photographic collections including rehousing, storage and proper environmental controls. I have no experience with the preservation of photographic collections. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting inventories of collection materials? Answer to this question is required I have inventoried archival, photographic or special collection materials to verify physical locations and conditions as a regular part of my job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have inventoried archival, photographic or special collection materials to verify physical locations and conditions as a regular part of my job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have inventoried archival, photographic or special collection materials to verify physical locations and conditions as part of an internship, fellowship, or volunteer position, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not performed any of these tasks. 4 Which of the following best demonstrates your knowledge of the principles, methods and practices of library, archival, and collections management? Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated my knowledge of the principles, methods and practices of library, archival and/or collections management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have demonstrated my knowledge of the principles, methods, and practices of library, archival and collections management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have completed formal education or training in the principles, methods and practices of library, archival and/or collections management, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in the principles, methods and practices of library, archival and/or collections management. 5 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of archival description standards and cataloging tools and techniques including database systems, Machine Readable Cataloging (MARC) format, DACS, Encoded Archival Description, Library of Congress subject headings, SIRIS (Smithsonian Institution Research Information System), etc? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision. I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best reflects your experience in the appraisal, arrangement, description, cataloging and encoding (i.e. "processing") of materials in archival collections? Answer to this question is required I have processed archival materials as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have processed archival materials under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have processed archival materials as a part of an internship, fellowship, or volunteer position, but have not performed this task in a full-time permanent position. I have completed formal education or training in processing archival collections, but have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your knowledge of collections information management systems to include KE/Axiell Software (EMu systems)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used KE/Axiell Software (EMu systems) collections information management system and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with other information management systems such as Vernon Systems (Vernon CMS) and/or The Museum System (TMS). I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL , and MS Access). I am unfamiliar with collections information management systems and software. 8 Which of the following describes your knowledge of archival collections information management systems to include Archivists' Toolkit or ArchivesSpace? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used Archivists’ Toolkit and/or ArchivesSpace collections information management systems and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with other archival collections information systems such as Archon. I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL, and MS Access). I am unfamiliar with archival collections information management systems and software. 9 Which of the following procurement duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering a variety of goods and services Entering procurement data into an automated system Tracking delivery of goods and services Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders Completing a variety of procurement forms Purchasing a variety of goods and services Obtaining prices for available goods and services Conducting market surveys for available goods and services Conducting inventories and maintaining property accountability I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in procurement 10 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in coordinating travel? Experience means you have&nbsp; independently performed this task numerous times without review or assistance from others. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) procedures and/or regulations. I have advised office personnel on travel requirements and procedures. I have explained the complexities of travel requirements to office personnel and provided guidance on appropriate travel documentation. I have prepared or reviewed travel vouchers for compliance with current guidelines. I have prepared individual travel requests or vouchers for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel requests or vouchers for foreign travel. I have prepared invitational travel orders. I have prepared travel related documents using an automated system, such as Concur. I have reconciled travel problems. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 11 Please choose the statements below that describe administrative activities that you have carried out. (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Composed letters, memoranda and reports. Created purchase requisitions using a system such as PeopleSoft and tracked procurement process. Notified or reminded others of pending actions. Arranged travel including plane, car and hotel reservations. Created travel authorizations in a system such as Govtrip. Used a word processing application to create documents and reports. Used a word processing application to format documents and reports with footnotes, headers, tables of contents and similar features. Arranged, coordinated or supported conferences, lectures or similar meetings. Responded to customer inquiries in a professional environment. Independently managed my tasks in an office environment with multiple staff and priorities. None of the above. 12 Which of the following demonstrates your experience coordinating travel or preparing for meetings? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) procedures and/or regulations. I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with on-line booking engines. I have advised office personnel on travel requirements and procedures. I have explained the complexities of travel requirements to office personnel and provided guidance on appropriate travel documentation. I have prepared and/or reviewed travel vouchers for compliance with current guidelines. I have prepared individual travel orders for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel orders for foreign travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for foreign travel. I have prepared invitational travel orders. I have prepared travel related documents using an automated system, such as Travel Manager. I have reconciled travel problems. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following administrative activities have you have carried out? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed letters, memoranda and reports. Created purchase requisitions using a system such as PeopleSoft and tracked procurement process. Notified or reminded others of pending actions. Arranged travel including plane, car and hotel reservations. Created travel authorizations in a system such as Govtrip. Used a word processing application to create documents and reports. Used a word processing application to format documents and reports with footnotes, headers, tables of contents and similar features. Arranged, coordinated or supported conferences, lectures or similar meetings. Responded to customer inquiries in a professional environment. Independently managed my tasks in an office environment with multiple staff and priorities. None of the above. 14 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in providing reference services in Native American history and culture? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked in a history and culture library and/or archives that had a Native American section. I have worked with Native American populations providing library and/or archives services. I have worked with Native American materials in prior positions. I have provided reference services using materials about Native Americans. I have not worked in any of the above. 15 What is the highest level of reference services that you have provided? Answer to this question is required I have worked in an archive or library and provided answers to complex reference questions. I have worked in an archive or library and provided answers to basic reference questions I have worked in an archive or library, but have not provided reference services. I have not worked in an archive or library, but I have conducted research in one. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.