Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for&nbsp;this position must demonstrate all of the following: Ability to manage and plan program through the design, construction and equipment installation stages, to the checkout and commissioning stage or other project completion milestones.&nbsp; Performing project management and monitoring for new construction, renovations, and improvements to facilities. Performing pre-award, post-award, and post-contract activities. Coordinating and overseeing assigned project work elements in the project contract. Preparing and managing project budgets and schedules. 2 Do you have experience working on an occupied building that requires historic preservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your experience in Facility Condition Assessment? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I had the education or training performing this task, but I have not yet performed the task in a work setting. I have the performed this task in a work setting, however I do not have formal education or training in this task. I have working experience, education or training in performing this task. 4 What is your level of experience in Facility Condition Assessment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in Facility Condition Assessment. I have experience in only reviewing Facility Condition Assessments as task leader. I have experience in developing Facility Condition Assessments. I have experience in managing Facility Condition Assessments. I have experience in leading the Agency Facility Condition Assessment. 5 Which statement best describes your experience preparing technical evaluations of contractor proposals, recommending a pre-negotiation position for contracts, and assisting with contract negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which contracting duties have you performed on a regular and recurring basis as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Managing government contracts in support of communications activities Preparing solicitation documents Serving as a Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) Serving as a contract administrator for management of deliverables and invoices None of the above 7 Which outcomes have you achieved when resolving problems? Answer to this question is required An increase in efficiency and/or productivity The development and implementation of a new policy A cost-savings Complying with codes while maintaining client goals Improved customer satisfaction None of the above 8 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 9 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. I have written summaries or oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports for completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products None of the above 10 Select the activities you have performed related to budgets. Answer to this question is required Developed draft budgets for oversight approval for a multi-year program Justified budget expenses related to program execution Monitored operations for compliance with budget provisions Completed a project within budget limitations None of the above 11 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects as part of an agency-wide program or portfolio Established timelines and milestones for a project Managed Quality Assurance on a project Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 12 What is your level of experience developing or managing Historic Preservation Documentation for highly visible or historic facilities? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in Historic Preservation Documentation I have assisted in reviewing Historic Preservation Documentation I have developed Historic Preservation Documentation for projects I have managed Historic Preservation Documentation development for multiple facilities I have led an organization-wide Historic Preservation Documentation program 13 What is your experience integrating Facility Condition Assessment (FCA) findings into a Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) or other similar agency-wide program for tracking maintenance and backlog? Answer to this question is required I have no experience with CMMS or backlog data I have reviewed FCA backlog data entries for accuracy. I have entered or updated FCA-derived backlog items into a CMMS I have managed backlog data and ensured FCA findings were consistently captured. I have led an agency-wide backlog program, including performing audits, overseeing updates, and coordinating with multiple offices or jurisdictions. 14 What is your experience applying formal historic preservation standards such as the US Secretary of the Interior&rsquo;s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, the Architect of the Capitol&rsquo;s Preservation Policy and Standards, or equivalent Federal, State, Local, or Tribal standards? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying formal preservation standards I have reviewed or referenced preservation standards in support of project-level tasks. I have applied preservation standards in developing preservation documentation or assessing existing historic conditions. I have managed projects requiring the application of preservation standards and coordinated compliance with historic preservation officers or authorities. I have led an agency-wide preservation documentation or assessment program(s) that required consistent application of preservation standards across multiple facilities or jurisdictions. 15 Which Certifications or Registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required Registered Architect (RA) LEED Accredited Professional (LEED AP) Project Management Professional (PMP) 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.