Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Which statement best describes your background related to this position? Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following public affairs or communications tasks have you performed in your position? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have successfully pitched and placed stories with top-tier news media. I have organized news conferences. I have organized media tours to promote an event or project. I have written, designed and produced content for digital and print distribution. I have edited and approved content for digital and print distribution. I have prepared briefing material for senior management or public officials. I have conducted oral presentations. I have written news releases. None of the above. 3 Do you have experience in developing and executing public affairs program plans, including content development and communication programs? (Select one) Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in leading the conceptualization, creation, implementation and measurement of public affairs communication strategies for major announcements. I have had some responsibility, contributing to communications plans as part of a team. I have worked with communication plans, but not as a major role or responsibility. I have no such relevant experience. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in evaluating the impact and effectiveness of public affairs/marketing campaigns and other communications efforts? Answer to this question is required No experience I have had education or training in this area, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently, typically without review by a supervisor or senior staff member. I am considered an expert in performing this task and have either supervised or been consulted by co-workers for assistance because of my expertise. 5 Which of the following reflect your written communications experience for both internal and external audiences. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training preparing written information for both internal and external audiences. I have completed training preparing written information for both internal and external audiences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared written information for both internal and external audiences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have prepared written information for both internal and external audiences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of policies, standards, and U.S. Trademark laws that pertain to the registration, use and protections of images? Answer to this question is required I have education and training in policies, standards, and U.S. Trademark laws that pertain to the use and registration of images. With supervision, I have applied policies, standards and U.S. Trademark laws that pertain to the use and registration of images. I have interpreted policies, standards, and U.S. Trademark laws that pertain to the use and registration of images. I have supervised others in applying policies, standards, and U.S. Trademark laws that pertain to the use and registration of images. I have no knowledge of policies, standards, and U.S. Trademark laws that pertain to the use and registration of images. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience completing complex assignments requiring accurate, timely and technically sound products or decisions under tight time constraints? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience completing complex assignments requiring accurate, timely and technically sound products or decisions under tight time constraints as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience completing complex assignments requiring accurate, timely and technically sound products or decisions under tight time constraints as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with brand marketing method, techniques, and practices? Answer to this question is required I have created new and ingenuity branding marketing approaches for an organization or company. I have managed an organization or company’s branding across all media channels. I have assisted creating new branding marketing approaches for an organization or company. I have experience promoting an organization’s mission or programs, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies I do not have experience or education/ training with brand marketing method, techniques, and practices but have not performed the task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and recommending a marketing strategy? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience creating and implementing a marketing plan, directing marketing strategies and advertising campaign to promote an organization’s mission, program, or brand; managing an operating marketing and public relations budget, collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies, and conducting marketing trends analysis . I have extensive experience implementing a marketing plan, promoting an organization’s mission or programs, managing an operating marketing and public relations budget, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies. I have extensive experience coordinating or leading a marketing plan, promoting an organization’s mission or programs, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies. I have experience promoting an organization’s mission or programs, and collaborating with other organizational departments and outside partners to implement marketing strategies. None of the above. 10 Which of the following media tools have you used for marketing and communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Press releases. Newspaper ads. Magazine or journal ads. Tourism publications. Radio ads. Television ads. Public Service Announcements. Digital/web advertising. Digital/mobile advertising. Email marketing campaigns. Social media. Direct mail such as calendars or postcards. Rack cards. Posters, signage, or billboards. Promotional giveaways. None of the above. 11 Which of the following strategies and tactics have you used to position an organization's brand? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Digital (web or email) marketing. Marketing or promotional events. Paid print, out of home, digital radio or TV advertising. Social media. Co-branding partnerships. Celebrity endorsements. None of the above. 12 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of management support staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in an administrative unit and creating work plans and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating work of subordinates including development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience providing counseling to employees on administrative matters including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counselings. I have experience interviewing candidates for vacancies. None of the above. 13 Which of the following statements best characterizes your teamwork or collaboration experience? Answer to this question is required Worked independently and do not have substantial teamwork experience or collaboration experience. Worked in collaboration with a variety of individuals and groups. Led a team in which I was responsible for coordinating the work of the team, ensuring work was completed on time, negotiating consensus among team members, and communicating progress to managers and supervisors. Collaborated with one or two other colleagues on a discrete project or assignment. Worked in collaboration with colleagues from another Smithsonian Unit or Federal Agency. I do not have teamwork or collaboration experience. 14 Which of the following describe your experience establishing, maintaining and/or fostering teamwork? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked with others to achieve goals. I have worked effectively with others to develop and implement operational changes and carry out duties. I have fostered commitment and team spirit. I have worked on teams to accomplish work-related activities. I have collaborated with others to accomplish work-related activities. I have expressed thoughts or opinions in a logical sequence as a member of a work team. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have lead teams and participated as a team member at the local and higher levels in examining issues. I have worked effectively with others as part of a team. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.