Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide program and operations analysis.** Provided program and operations analysis to meet the goals and objectives of an organization. In doing so, performed the following: 1) conducted assessments of the efficiency and effectiveness of programs, projects, systems and operations by soliciting customer feedback and identifying gaps between current and projected strategic workforce requirements and implementing targeted strategies to close gaps, 2) participates in planning, organizing, and coordinating team activities related to program and operations analysis, 3) participates in the identification and/or development of evaluation criteria to measure success of goals and objectives and evaluate outcomes of organizational initiatives, and 4) collaborates with staff on policy development and recommends improvements for policies, procedures, and practices. Answer to this question is required Played a key role in providing program and operations analysis, performing ALL of the above tasks. Played a key role or participated in providing program and operations analysis, performing THREE (3) of the above tasks. Played a key role or participated in providing program and operations analysis, performing TWO (2) of the above tasks. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide data analysis and reporting activities.** Participated in planning, organizing, and coordinating the identification and/or design of measurement devices, survey techniques, best practices, metrics and other assessment tools to gather data for assessing workforce planning, succession planning, training and development, and other talent management strategies. This includes analyzing routine operational issues and problems and recommending solutions. Answer to this question is required Independently deployed quantitative and qualitative analytical methodologies to develop data-driven conclusions and recommendations on human capital issues to achieve program goals and objectives. With minimal supervision, deployed quantitative and qualitative analytical methodologies to develop data-driven conclusions and recommendations on human capital issues to achieve program goals and objectives. Assisted in providing quantitative and qualitative analytical methodologies to develop data-driven conclusions and recommendations on human capital issues to achieve program goals and objectives. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to communicate in writing. Drafted a clear, accurate, descriptive, and factual documents, such as 1) policies and procedures, 2) analytical documents and reports, 3) presentation materials, 4) survey results and findings, 5) strategic planning documents, and 6) formal and informal correspondence. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote ALL of the above documents. Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above documents. Independently or with minimal supervision, wrote THREE (3) of the above documents. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to develop and maintain relationships and provide consultation. The ability to develop and maintain professional relationships with others such as (co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units). Exercise judgment and discretion when providing positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipate their current and future needs and exchange accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts internal to the workgroup or office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Individuals had similar views and goals. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).