Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead and manage projects.** Led and managed multiple projects through the following actions: 1) used Project Management methodology based on PMBOK; 2) ensured integration of best practices in the planning, communications management, scope management, time management, cost management, quality control, HR management, risk management, and procurement management for all projects; and 3) created and served as the expert for others in the creation of Work Breakdown Structures (WBS), GANTT charts, and performance measurements. Answer to this question is required Led SEVERAL projects differing in scope relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities. In doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in SEVERAL projects relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities. In doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. Led or played a key role in A SINGLE project relative to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities. In doing so, executed ALL of the above tasks. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of contract preparation and contractor monitoring policies and procedures.** Worked as a contract officer representative (COR), monitoring, evaluating, and overseeing contract activities performing the following activities: 1) coordinating contract administration activities for technical service contracts; 2) overseeing technical evaluations of work performed by contractors; 3) initiating revisions to meet changing program requirements; 4) drafting statements of work and independent government cost estimates (includes understanding cost estimation techniques); 5) collaborating with vendors and end users to ensure contract requirements are met and activities are performed in compliance with the terms of the contract; 6) reviewing the work product of contract personnel, including accepting, amending or rejecting their work; 7) approving / rejecting contractor invoices; and 8) creating contractor performance reports (CPAR). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) or an equivalent position in the private sector monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) or an equivalent position in the private sector monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing FOUR (4), FIVE (5), or SIX (6) of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) or an equivalent position in the private sector monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing AT LEAST ONE (1) of the above. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to implement, manage, or administer automated accounting systems and software applications for financial management work.** Worked with automated systems and software applications typically used in the financial field (e.g., automated accounting systems such as Momentum, Oracle, SAP, Peoplesoft, Workday, NetSuite, Dynamics, etc.) to support financial management work and performed the following:&nbsp; 1) Implementations; 2) System Support, including creating User Documentation; 3) Upgrades and/or Enhancements, including interface development and support; 4) User Training; 5) System Administration; and 6) Continuity of Operations Planning / Disaster Recovery. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Experience working with advanced financial computer software applications in a Federal Government agency and has performed AT LEAST FOUR of the above. Has experience leading projects that are critical for the entire agency's use of the financial system. Considered to be a primary point of contact for the financial system by agency management and staff. Experience working with advanced financial computer software applications in a Federal Government agency and has performed TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above. Has experience leading or supporting projects that are critical for a specific organizational unit's use of the financial system. Considered to be a knowledgeable point of contact for the financial system by agency management and staff. Experience working with advanced financial computer software applications in a Federal Government agency and has performed ONE (1) of the above. Has experience supporting projects for a specific organizational unit's use of the financial system. Is a point of contact for the financial system by agency management and staff. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. The ability to write clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products, such as:&nbsp; 1) process and procedure documentation, 2) statements of work, 3) research reports, 4) project justifications, 5) project plans, 6) communications announcements/responses to users, 7) financial or system policies, and 8) performance reports. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, has written documents for various audiences, including senior executives, managers, supervisors, and non-technical individuals. Independently prepared ALL of the written products listed above at a professional level. As a primary job responsibility, has written documents for various audiences, including senior executives, managers, supervisors, and non-technical individuals. Independently prepared SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the written products listed above at a professional level. As a primary job responsibility, has written documents for various audiences, including senior executives, managers, supervisors, and non-technical individuals. Independently prepared FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the written products listed above at a professional level. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Knowledge of the Federal budget process and financial management practices and procedures including planning, formulation, justification and execution. Performed federal budget and financial management work in support of one or more of the phases involved in budget administration, including the following: 1) budget development, 2) budget execution and accounting, 3) financial reporting, 4) financial reconciliations, and 5) utilization of the United States Standard General Ledger. Answer to this question is required Served as an expert in performing full range of administrative, budgetary and accounting activities connected with the review, justification, presentation and execution of the budget for a federal agency/organization or major component thereof including leading initiatives for FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Provided advice on the most advantageous courses of action. Performed complex and varied duties for a variety of budget or accounting analysis assignments, including supporting THREE (3) of the above for a federal agency/organization or major component thereof. Performed complex and varied duties for a variety of budget or accounting analysis assignments, including supporting TWO (2) of the above for a federal agency/organization or major component thereof. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).