Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Conduct Policy Statement I am a bona fide applicant pursuing a Foreign Service career and I understand, acknowledge and agree to the requirements outlined below. That the Department of State reserves the right to cancel or withhold results and/or disqualify my application when, in its judgment, an irregularity occurs, including but not limited to candidate misconduct, plagiarism, and/or misrepresentation of material fact. By selecting "Yes," I accept the terms. By selecting "No," I do not accept the terms and I understand that my application will be terminated. Answer to this question is required Yes No Note to Question One: These provisions are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive Order relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities by controlling Executive Orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into this agreement and are controlling. Important: In order to be eligible for this vacancy, all applicants must meet the all of the minimum requirements. To verify you meet these requirements, please read the entire vacancy announcement. Specialized Experience must be within the last 10 years to qualify. 2 Are you willing to serve anywhere in the world, as well as at an unaccompanied post (see below before answering)? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Worldwide availability is both an affirmed willingness to serve anywhere in the world and a matter of being medically qualified to do so. Both are essential requirements for appointment to the Foreign Service. Worldwide availability also means that, due to political instability and/or security concerns, in some cases family members cannot go to post (unaccompanied tours) or must leave post as security deteriorates (evacuations). 3 Are you at least 20 years old? Answer to this question is required Yes No Note: Applicants must be American citizens and at least 20 years old to apply and at least 21 years of age to be appointed. Note: By law, all career candidates, except preference eligible veterans, must be appointed to the Foreign Service prior to the month in which they reach age 60. For more information about Veteran's Preference and how it is applied in the FS Selection Process, please visit: http://careers.state.gov/faqs/faqs-wiki/are-veterans-given-hiring-preference- 4 In the last two years, have you received written notification that you were found unsuitable for employment by a Department of State Suitability Review Panel or Final Review Panel? For more information, see https://fam.state.gov/ (3 FAM 2215). Answer to this question is required Yes No Note: Individuals who have been found unsuitable for employment by a Department of State Suitability or Final Review Panel within the previous two years are ineligible to apply (unless the individual was a candidate for a Special Agent position with the Diplomatic Security Service and the decision to deny eligibility was based on the candidate's inability to fulfill the unique duties of that position). 5 Do you speak a foreign language? Answer to this question is required Yes Foreign Language Proficiency 5.1 Please copy the complete name from THIS LIST to choose your first foreign language. Maximum length of 100 characters. 5.2 Please indicate your first foreign language speaking proficiency. &nbsp;Please click here for proficiency definitions. 0 - No practical proficiency 1 - Elementary proficiency 2 - Limited working proficiency 3 - Minimum professional proficiency 4 - Full professional proficiency 5 - Native or bilingual proficiency 5.3 Please indicate your first foreign language reading proficiency. &nbsp;Please click here for proficiency definitions. 0 - No practical proficiency 1 - Elementary proficiency 2 - Limited working proficiency 3 - Minimum professional proficiency 4 - Full professional proficiency 5 - Native or bilingual proficiency 5.4 Please copy the complete name from THIS LIST to choose your second foreign language. Maximum length of 100 characters. 5.5 Please indicate your second foreign language speaking proficiency. &nbsp;Please click here for proficiency definitions. 0 - No practical proficiency 1 - Elementary proficiency 2 - Limited working proficiency 3 - Minimum professional proficiency 4 - Full professional proficiency 5 - Native or bilingual proficiency 5.6 Please indicate your second foreign language reading proficiency. &nbsp;Please click here for proficiency definitions. 0 - No practical proficiency 1 - Elementary proficiency 2 - Limited working proficiency 3 - Minimum professional proficiency 4 - Full professional proficiency 5 - Native or bilingual proficiency No 6 Highest Education Level Completed No Formal Education (01) Elementary School Completed (02) Some High School (03) High School Graduate (04) Terminal Occup Prog-No Cert (05) Terminal Occup Prog-Cert (06) Some College - less than 1 Yr (07) One Year College (08) Two Years College (09) Associate Degree (10) Three Years College (11) Four Years College (12) Bachelor's Degree (13) Post Bachelor's (14) First Professional (15) Post-First Professional (16) Master's Degree (17) Post Master's (18) Sixth Year Degree (19) Post Sixth Year (20) Doctorate Degree (21) Post Doctorate (22) Undergraduate Study 7 Please CLICK HERE for a list of undergraduate schools from which you can copy and paste your school and school code into the box. Maximum length of 100 characters. 8 Please copy the complete name from OUR LIST to choose your first undergraduate major. Maximum length of 100 characters. 9 Please copy the complete name from OUR LIST to choose your second undergraduate major or minor. Maximum length of 100 characters. 10 End Undergraduate Study: Graduate Study 11 Find your graduate school from OUR LIST Please click on your school's name and it will be inserted in the text box below. Maximum length of 100 characters. 12 Please copy the complete name from THIS LIST to choose your first graduate major. Maximum length of 100 characters. 13 Please copy the complete name from THIS LIST to choose your second graduate major or minor. Maximum length of 100 characters. 14 End Graduate Study: 15 What source most inspired you to apply? Answer to this question is required I found information online 15.1 I found information online: careers.state.gov Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Instagram YouTube USAJobs.gov Google Reddit Glassdoor Handshake HBCU Connect DOSCareers mobile app Other I heard from a State Department Diplomat in Residence/recruiter 15.1 I heard from a State Department Diplomat in Residence/recruiter: Professional organization career fair University/college career fair Information session LinkedIn message Handshake message Other career-related or organization website message Email message Phone or video call (such as DIR Office Hours) I heard from my organization or someone I know 15.1 I heard from my organization or someone I know: An employee at my school (professor, career center, etc.) A State Department employee I know A professional organization/association Other Other (please specify) 15.1 Other (please specify): Maximum length of 100 characters. Accomplishments Questionnaire and Statement of Interest These required questions provide an opportunity to describe examples and accomplishments from your education, life, and/or work experience that demonstrate your qualifications for becoming a Foreign Service Specialist. Examples can be drawn from any part of your professional or personal experience. Each response is limited to 300 words or fewer (maximum length 2,000 characters) . You should compose your replies carefully, as one of the skills necessary to succeed as a Foreign Service Specialist is the ability to write clearly and concisely. Answers to all items in the Accomplishments Questionnaire and Statement of Interest are required and must be complete in the online application. &nbsp; Accomplishments Questionnaire 16 Substantive Knowledge: Describe your specialized knowledge, skills, and experience in the HR management profession that are applicable to performing the work described in this vacancy announcement. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 Intellectual Skills: Describe an example of when you used you analytic, critical thinking, and problem solving skills to improve an HR management process. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 18 Interpersonal Skills: Describe how you have used your interpersonal skills in a specific situation to resolve a difficult problem in working with other people to achieve a goal. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Communication Skills: Describe a situation in which you used your communication skills, including foreign language skills if appropriate, to further an aim or achieve a goal in an HR context. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 Management Skills: Describe an HR project you managed or helped to manage and how you planned and organized, set priorities and allocated time and resources to achieve the project's goals. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 Leadership Skills: Describe a situation that best illustrates your leadership skills, including the supervision and performance management of subordinate staff. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required Statement of Interest 22 Required narrative Statement of Interest, which discusses your: Motivation for joining the Foreign Service, Relevant work experience, including any unique strengths not described elsewhere such as special skills (e.g. computer), current licenses, certifications, honors, awards, special accomplishments, and/or training (with date completed) relating to this position, Experience living or working in a multicultural environment, overseas or in the United States. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.