Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of research and analysis in a public policy setting.** Knowledge of current public policy issue areas related to domestic social policy; foreign affairs, defense and trade; federal government organization and finance; natural resources, science and industry; American law; and knowledge of their nexus to Congress.&nbsp; Examples of issue areas include: congressional legislative, budget and oversight processes; agriculture&nbsp; and food supply; immigration; law and the judiciary; energy, environment and natural resources; tax policy; government finance and the federal budget; emergency management; technology, manufacturing, transportation; foreign affairs; international trade; defense; labor, economics; banking; education; health care and medicine, and others. Answer to this question is required Have in depth knowledge of several different areas of public policy and their nexus to Congress, evidenced by activities such as exercising final substantive clearance for articles or analyses prepared for a journal, news publication, or other publication or organization dedicated to the exposition of public policy options and congressional considerations or having exposure to diverse areas of public policy through a succession of positions in the public or private sector. Have broad knowledge of several different areas of public policy and their nexus to Congress, evidenced by education or activities such as serving as an official or analyst with a government agency, non-governmental organization, or news publication charged with developing, managing or evaluating public policy options and congressional considerations. Education, experience, or training which demonstrated knowledge of several areas of public policy, evidenced by such activities as reporting on areas of public policy for a non-governmental organization or journal. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to review and edit written research products.** The ability to comprehend and perform detailed and timely review of a wide range of complex written products designed to exclusively serve Members of the U.S. Congress and their staff and committees.&nbsp; This includes recognizing clear, accurate, and understandable written text in English following the basic tenets of composition and analysis, identifying and negotiating needed corrections in both content and style, and ensuring compliance with stringent research quality standards of authoritativeness, objectivity and nonpartisanship. &nbsp;This includes making recommendations to product authors and their managers, in up to two dozen research products daily, and suggesting creative alternatives to ensure consistency with required policy and accuracy standards while meeting strict congressional deadlines. Answer to this question is required As a regular and recurring job duty, evaluated highly complex, diverse written research products of others, including congressional legislation, through activities such as critically reviewing in depth research on public policy issues for compliance with established standards, making independent judgments on acceptability of material, identifying problems or issues, and negotiating changes with the authors to meet the quality standards of a policy organization and audience needs. Was accountable to the agency/organization to ensure that products met agency/organization standards. Frequently evaluated diverse written research products of others, including congressional legislation, through activities such as critically reviewing research on public policy issues for compliance with established standards, making independent judgments on acceptability of material, identifying problems or issues, and negotiated changes with the authors to meet the quality standards of a policy organization and audience needs. Evaluated written research products of others, including congressional legislation, through activities such as critically reviewing research on public policy issues for compliance with established standards, making independent judgments on acceptability of material, identifying problems or issues, and making recommendations to the authors to meet the quality standards of a policy organization and audience needs. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to Negotiate Changes with Authors and/or Management to Remedy Deficiencies in Reviewed Products.** The ability to confer with authors and/or management to come to terms or reach a timely agreement on necessary changes to remedy deficiencies in reviewed products prior to the release to the client. This includes the ability to be open to and understand opposing views, agreeing to goals and objectives, and reaching consensus that result in timely completion and delivery of the research product to the client. Answer to this question is required As a regular and recurring job duty, communicated concepts, isolated differences, questioned choices, and negotiated revisions with authors of complex, diverse research products, public policy articles or other substantive written products prior to final publication or release to the client. Frequently communicated concepts, isolated differences, questioned choices, and suggested revisions to authors of diverse research products, public policy articles or other substantive written products. Identified concepts, isolated differences, questioned choices, and submitted recommendations for changes to authors of research products, public policy articles or other substantive written products. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Skill in conduct of original research, including publication of original research results.** Demonstrated skill in posing a research question, forming a method to address the question, collecting and analyzing research results, interpreting results, and publishing research findings. This includes display of research results in tables, figures, or other graphical form. Answer to this question is required As a regular and recurring job duty, conducted original research on highly complex, diverse public policy areas, including; in-depth background research, posing an original research question, research, critically analyzing research results, and publishing research findings in accordance with agency or organization standards. Made innovative use of a wide range of graphics in research publications to convene complex material to an audience. Frequently conducted original research on diverse public policy areas, including; critically posing an original research question, forming a method to address the question, collecting and analyzing research results, interpreting results, and publishing research findings. Incorporated graphics such a table and figures, into research publications. Conducted public policy research, including; making independent judgements on the scope of the analysis, identifying problems or issues, negotiating changes with the editors and other stakeholders to meet the quality standards of a public policy organization and audience needs, and seeing the research through till publication. Incorporated graphics, such as tables and figures, into research publications. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of the Rules, Procedures, Organization, and Operations of the U.S. Government. Knowledge of the workings of the United States government. This includes knowledge of the congressional processes by which legislation becomes law, the federal budget and regulatory and rulemaking processes, the appropriations process, executive branch implementation of public laws, congressional oversight, and judicial review, sufficient to provide timely, accurate, non-partisan, objective and relevant assistance to an agency head, and congressional Members, committees, and staff. Answer to this question is required Gained a comprehensive knowledge of the rules, procedures and operations of the U.S. government evidenced by education or experience such as: served as a senior-level staffer for a Member or congressional committee, executive or judicial branch agency; covered U.S. government for a news organization or public policy journal; served as a liaison to Congress for a federal agency or other governmental organization; taught courses relating to the U.S. government as a professor at a post-secondary educational institution, or equivalent experience. Gained a working knowledge of the rules, procedures and operations of the U.S. government through such activities as developing or commenting on draft legislative proposals in a governmental agency or non-profit organization, representing a private group or company to Congress or representing a non-profit organization or public interest group to Congress, or equivalent experience. Gained a familiarity with the rules, procedures and operations of the U.S. government through such activities as serving as a congressional fellow or visiting scholar with a congressional office or committee, writing a thesis or dissertation on Congress, or advising clients on legislative issues, or equivalent experience. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of Research Standards and Methodologies. Knowledge of research methodologies in order to evaluate the research of others for compliance to standards, quality and thoroughness of analysis, and validity of conclusions. Answer to this question is required Have in depth knowledge of research standards and methodologies evidenced by such activities as using research products to make policy decisions as an official of an organization dealing with broad legal or policy issues, judging the reliability or research used by making such policy decisions, or directing a research program at a public or private sector organization or in academia. Have knowledge of research standards and methodologies evidenced by activities such as individually performing nonpartisan professional research in a setting such as a federal or state government agency, in the private sector, at a university or an organization devoted to the research and reportage of public policy issues. Have knowledge of research standards and methodologies by regularly reviewing and providing feedback on the research of others in an academic, business, government, or nonprofit setting. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).