Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 2 Select one response below that indicates how you meet the education/experience requirements for this position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have one-year specialized experience as defined in the qualifications section of this announcement at the next lower grade level in the federal or private sector. I have a combination of education and experience. I do not have the requied education or experience. 3 Which best describes your experience coordinating&nbsp; logistics &nbsp;for meetings, events, or visits involving internal and external stakeholders (e.g., scheduling, reservations, or access arrangements)? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 4 Which best describes your experience managing calendars and coordinating schedules for multiple staff while resolving conflicts and prioritizing requests? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 5 Which best describes your experience managing multiple administrative projects simultaneously while tracking deadlines and ensuring&nbsp; timely &nbsp;completion? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 6 Which best describes your experience supporting administrative processes such as&nbsp; document &nbsp;coordination, approvals, or internal workflow procedures? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 7 Which best describes your experience monitoring and improving administrative or operational processes to increase efficiency? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 8 Which best describes your experience drafting and editing professional correspondence (e.g., letters, reports, donor communications, or briefing materials)? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 9 Which best describes your experience incorporating edits from multiple reviewers and preparing final documents for distribution? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 10 Which best describes your experience using databases or tracking systems to enter, update, and&nbsp; maintain &nbsp; accurate &nbsp;records? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 11 Which best describes your experience coordinating work across multiple teams to ensure&nbsp; timely &nbsp;delivery of materials, information, or projects? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. 12 Which best describes your experience tracking, organizing, and communicating the status of assignments or projects to stakeholders? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task with close supervision. I have performed this task independently. I have performed this task independently and train others. I am considered an expert and advise others. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.