Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal Service. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Directing and/or preparing an agency’s budget the formulation and justification to executive leadership, Office of Management and Budget, and Congress; 2) Directing and/or preparing budget estimates and long-range budget forecasts and ensuring alignment with agency strategic goals; 3) Directing and/or preparing and reviewing monthly status of funds reports and ensuring accurate financial tracking; 4) Briefing senior officials on agency budget status, associated risks, and making recommendations; 5) Directing and/or preparing budget related reports, official memorandums, executive presentations, and briefing senior executives; AND 6) Extensive knowledge of budget concepts including those in other financial disciplines in a federal government setting. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Eligibility for this vacancy announcement (select all that apply). Answer to this question is required MERIT PROMOTION - I am eligible under Merit Promotion Procedures. Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS (current Career/Career Conditional employees; former Federal employees who achieved Career status in the competitive service; or former Federal employees who served on a Career-Conditional appointment without achieving career status in the competitive service and were separated less than 3 years ago). NON-COMPETITIVE AUTHORITY - I am eligible under a non-competitive appointing authority - Only applicants with FEDERAL STATUS who hold or has previously held a position in the competitive service with the same full performance grade level as this position on a permanent basis. I listed my highest full performance level under the Personal Information questions. VEOA - I am eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA). I am preference eligible or have been separated after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT - I am eligible as a CURRENT Excepted Service employee at an agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). OTHER - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee with the Foreign Service, Postal Career Service, Postal Rate Commission Employee, Government Accountability Office (GAO), Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts or other federal agency for which you gained eligibility to apply for career/career-conditional positions. LAND MANAGEMENT AGENCY - I am eligible as a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation). MILITARY SPOUSES - I am eligible as a SPOUSE of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty; a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). PEACE CORPS OR VISTA - I am eligible as a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position (you must provide supporting documentation; OR a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years ( a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower). INTERAGENCY CAREER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (ICTAP) - I am eligible as a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency, other than the CPSC. SCHEDULE A- I am eligible as an individual with intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment. OTHER - I am applying under a hiring path not listed above. 7 Please provide the other hiring path for which you are eligible.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 9 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Select the statement best describes your technical expertise. Answer to this question is required I have directed the preparation of budget estimates for submission to OMB and for the President's budget justifications, supporting exhibits and schedules, and cross-cutting justification. 13.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. I have prepared and submitted budget estimates to the Chief Financial Officer including budget justifications, supporting exhibits and schedules, and cross cutting information. I have directed the review, analysis, and revision of budget requests, appointments and fund allocations, reprogramming, and other budgetary actions. I have assisted in the review, analysis, and revision of budget requests, appointments and fund allocations, reprogramming, and other budgetary actions. I have monitored and evaluated program budget execution by managing the analysis of spending trends, identifying key budget execution issues, and developing recommendations for course correction. None of the above. 14 Select the responses that describe your expertise in managing large, complex projects. Answer to this question is required I actively participate in the substantive work of the team while providing guidance and direction to team members on the work to be completed. I articulate and communicate assignments to my team. I teach project problem solving methods and techniques. I provide advice on work methods, practices and procedures and assist team members in identifying the parameters of a viable solution. I identify, distribute and balance workload and tasks among employees in accordance with established policies, practices, work flow, and employee skill levels. I make adjustments to accomplish the workload in accordance with established priorities to ensure timely accomplishment of assigned team tasks. I ensure that each employee has an integral role in developing the final team product. None of the above. 15 Select the response that best described your experience forecasting expenditures to ensure they are within budgetary limits. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience forecasting expenditures. I have had education and training in forecasting expenditures but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed forecasting expenditures with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed forecasting expenditures as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised and/or am considered an expert in forecasting expenditures. 16 Evaluate your experience in setting priorities and organizing work to meet established deadlines. Answer to this question is required I have experience setting priorities and organizing work to meet established deadlines. I have experience setting priorities and organizing work to meet established deadlines ahead of schedule. I have extensive experience setting priorities and organizing work to meet established deadlines. I have extensive experience setting priorities and organizing work to meet established deadlines ahead of schedule. I usually need assistance with setting priorities and/or organizing work. None of the above. 17 Select the response that best describes your supervisory experience. Answer to this question is required I have served as a second line manager, directing the work of subordinate supervisors and conducting/signing their performance appraisals. I have served as a first line manager, directly supervising the work of staff and conducting/signing their performance appraisals. I have served as a team leader, overseeing projects or tasks performed by several employees. None of the above. 18 Select the type of projects where you have played a key/lead role. Answer to this question is required Analyzed agency budget data to make decisions or recommendations to the CFO and senior leadership. Leveraging automated financial systems to monitor and analyze complex programs. Preparation of position papers for budget alternatives. Improving business processes Composing budget policies and procedures None of the above. 19 Do you have technical expertise with Strategic Planning? Answer to this question is required Yes 19.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. No 20 Evaluate your experience conducting technical analysis during the budget execution process to track use of funds. Answer to this question is required I have no experience and/or training on conducting technical analysis during the budget execution process. I have had training on conducting technical analysis during the budget execution process. I conduct technical analysis during the budget execution process, independently and regularly as part of a job. I have supervised and/or trained others on the technical analysis that occurs during the budget execution process. 21 Select the areas in which you have Federal budget experience. Answer to this question is required Program office submission Congressional justification MAX Data Entry OMB Budget Data request (BDR) OMB Circulars (e.g. A-11) OMB/Congressional Hearings Agency Operating Plan Agency Strategic Plan Annual Performance Goals None of the above. 22 I have experience utilizing the following automated software to enhance team collaboration and budget operational efficiencies (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required Microsoft Teams Microsoft Power Apps SharePoint Other CoPilot, Claude, ChatGPT None of the above. 23 If you selected "Other" as automated software used to enhance team collaboration and accounting operations, please provide the software name(s).&nbsp; (Maximum 100 characters) Maximum length of 100 characters. Answer to this question is required 24 Select the response that describes your experience managing a professional and administrative staff, to include contractor support. Answer to this question is required I have managed a staff performing budget work in areas such as agency budget formulation, budget execution, cost estimation, OMB MAX and was responsible for technical supervision of the budget function. I developed a professional, high-performing team to proactively respond to organization objectives. I have developed individual performance goals and performance plans. I have resolved interpersonal problems before they become disruptive, and take necessary performance and disciplinary actions. None of the above. 25 I have made formal presentations on budget requests or estimates to the following audiences. Answer to this question is required Office Directors Senior Management Agency-Head Office of Management and Budget Congress None of the above. 26 Do you have technical expertise of the Annual Performance Report (APR)? Answer to this question is required Yes 26.1 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. No 27 Select the answer that best describes the following types of written products you have independently produced. Answer to this question is required Reports for publication and submission to OMB, Congress, or other external stakeholders. Position papers or summary reports on agency data, which include analysis and recommendations. Formal agency responses for submission to external agencies. Comprehensive materials for briefings, meetings and conferences for senior management or agency executives. None of the above. 28 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 29 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 30 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 31 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).