Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-11 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree. This education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service. In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described on the vacancy announcement, which is equivalent to the work of the position and is equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service. This education and experience meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the choices that describe your knowledge or experience with the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have knowledge acquired through education, training or self-instruction but have not applied it on the job. I have explained or interpreted the AECA and ITAR to governmental entities or industry whose activities are subject to the law and regulations. I have participated in discussions with persons and/or organizations whose licensing issues may / may not meet legal and regulatory requirements. I have analyzed information, documents or reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. I have drafted reports, documents or other forms of assessment addressing potential or actual violations of the law and regulations. None of the above. 6 With which of the following treaties, regulations, and other regimes have you received training or experience? Answer to this question is required Australia Group (AG) Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Export Administration Regulations (EAR) Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism Guidance on the Import and Export of Radioactive Sources International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) Limited Test Ban Treaty (LTBT) Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) Nuclear Terrorism Convention (NTC) Nuclear testing moratoria Nuclear Weapons Free Zone (NWFZ) treaties or proposals Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty (PNET) Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT) U.N. Security Council Resolution 1540 Wassenaar Arrangement (WA) Zangger Committee None of the above 7 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to analyze and evaluate the relevance, significance, and validity of information in order to draw conclusions and make recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have some education or training in the process of analyzing and interpreting information to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I have some work experience assisting others analyzing and interpreting information in order to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I work closely with the supervisor and/or a senior employee in analyzing and interpreting information, drawing conclusions and/or generating new questions to pursue. I have demonstrated the ability to independently collect information from a variety of sources, analyze and interpret the information, and draw conclusions to solve problems. I have demonstrated a high level of experience collecting and synthesizing information from a variety of sources involving complex issues, analyzing and interpreting the information, and drawing conclusions to solve problems. None of the above. 8 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or licensing issues to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential problems. Promoted an export control program to those whose activities are subject to it. None of the above. 9 From the following list of choices, please identify the area(s) in which you have experience providing technical assessments and advice on potential exports of U.S. controlled goods and technology: Answer to this question is required Biological Weapons Chemical Weapons Conventional Weapons Missiles Nuclear Weapons None of the above 10 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses / assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences / symposia Interviews Press / public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet Georeferenced data None of the above 11 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 12 Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues: Answer to this question is required I have no experience in the negotiation of complex issues. I have supported the negotiation of complex issues, but I have not served as the primary negotiator. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and resolving problems. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, diffusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solution on controversial issues. 13 From the choices below, select those in which you have participated in which support activities to regulate the international trade of conventional arms: Answer to this question is required Arms Trade Treaty UN Group of Government Experts UN open-ended working groups Preparatory Committees Conferences Represent the US in meetings with NGOs, academia and/or the media None of the above 14 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to conventional arms transfer issues in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Research, development, testing, and production of foreign conventional weapons systems Technical specifications and capabilities of foreign conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with foreign marketing and sales of advanced conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with U.S. marketing and sales - both corporate and governmental - associated with conventional military systems U.S. and international mechanisms for controlling foreign transfer of conventional weapons to countries / entities of concern None of the above Grade: 12 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the choices that describe your knowledge or experience with the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have knowledge acquired through education, training or self-instruction but have not applied it on the job. I have explained or interpreted the AECA and ITAR to governmental entities or industry whose activities are subject to the law and regulations. I have participated in discussions with persons and/or organizations whose licensing issues may / may not meet legal and regulatory requirements. I have analyzed information, documents or reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. I have drafted reports, documents or other forms of assessment addressing potential or actual violations of the law and regulations. None of the above. 6 With which of the following treaties, regulations, and other regimes have you received training or experience? Answer to this question is required Australia Group (AG) Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Export Administration Regulations (EAR) Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism Guidance on the Import and Export of Radioactive Sources International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) Limited Test Ban Treaty (LTBT) Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) Nuclear Terrorism Convention (NTC) Nuclear testing moratoria Nuclear Weapons Free Zone (NWFZ) treaties or proposals Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty (PNET) Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT) U.N. Security Council Resolution 1540 Wassenaar Arrangement (WA) Zangger Committee None of the above 7 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to analyze and evaluate the relevance, significance, and validity of information in order to draw conclusions and make recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have some education or training in the process of analyzing and interpreting information to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I have some work experience assisting others analyzing and interpreting information in order to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I work closely with the supervisor and/or a senior employee in analyzing and interpreting information, drawing conclusions and/or generating new questions to pursue. I have demonstrated the ability to independently collect information from a variety of sources, analyze and interpret the information, and draw conclusions to solve problems. I have demonstrated a high level of experience collecting and synthesizing information from a variety of sources involving complex issues, analyzing and interpreting the information, and drawing conclusions to solve problems. None of the above. 8 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or licensing issues to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential problems. Promoted an export control program to those whose activities are subject to it. None of the above. 9 From the following list of choices, please identify the area(s) in which you have experience providing technical assessments and advice on potential exports of U.S. controlled goods and technology: Answer to this question is required Biological Weapons Chemical Weapons Conventional Weapons Missiles Nuclear Weapons None of the above 10 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses / assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences / symposia Interviews Press / public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet Georeferenced data None of the above 11 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 12 Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues: Answer to this question is required I have no experience in the negotiation of complex issues. I have supported the negotiation of complex issues, but I have not served as the primary negotiator. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and resolving problems. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, diffusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solution on controversial issues. 13 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of US foreign assistance issues: Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International Organizations (IO) (members or staff) Non-governmental organization (NGO) or academic institution General public None of the Above 14 From the choices below, select those in which you have participated in which support activities to regulate the international trade of conventional arms: Answer to this question is required Arms Trade Treaty UN Group of Government Experts UN open-ended working groups Preparatory Committees Conferences Represent the US in meetings with NGOs, academia and/or the media None of the above 15 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to conventional arms transfer issues in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Research, development, testing, and production of foreign conventional weapons systems Technical specifications and capabilities of foreign conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with foreign marketing and sales of advanced conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with U.S. marketing and sales - both corporate and governmental - associated with conventional military systems U.S. and international mechanisms for controlling foreign transfer of conventional weapons to countries / entities of concern None of the above Grade: 13 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the choices that describe your knowledge or experience with the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have knowledge acquired through education, training or self-instruction but have not applied it on the job. I have explained or interpreted the AECA and ITAR to governmental entities or industry whose activities are subject to the law and regulations. I have participated in discussions with persons and/or organizations whose licensing issues may / may not meet legal and regulatory requirements. I have analyzed information, documents or reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. I have drafted reports, documents or other forms of assessment addressing potential or actual violations of the law and regulations. None of the above. 6 With which of the following treaties, regulations, and other regimes have you received training or experience? Answer to this question is required Australia Group (AG) Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) Export Administration Regulations (EAR) Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism Guidance on the Import and Export of Radioactive Sources International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) Limited Test Ban Treaty (LTBT) Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) Nuclear Terrorism Convention (NTC) Nuclear testing moratoria Nuclear Weapons Free Zone (NWFZ) treaties or proposals Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty (PNET) Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT) U.N. Security Council Resolution 1540 Wassenaar Arrangement (WA) Zangger Committee None of the above 7 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to analyze and evaluate the relevance, significance, and validity of information in order to draw conclusions and make recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have some education or training in the process of analyzing and interpreting information to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I have some work experience assisting others analyzing and interpreting information in order to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I work closely with the supervisor and/or a senior employee in analyzing and interpreting information, drawing conclusions and/or generating new questions to pursue. I have demonstrated the ability to independently collect information from a variety of sources, analyze and interpret the information, and draw conclusions to solve problems. I have demonstrated a high level of experience collecting and synthesizing information from a variety of sources involving complex issues, analyzing and interpreting the information, and drawing conclusions to solve problems. None of the above. 8 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or licensing issues to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential problems. Promoted an export control program to those whose activities are subject to it. None of the above. 9 From the following list of choices, please identify the area(s) in which you have experience providing technical assessments and advice on potential exports of U.S. controlled goods and technology: Answer to this question is required Biological Weapons Chemical Weapons Conventional Weapons Missiles Nuclear Weapons None of the above 10 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses / assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences / symposia Interviews Press / public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet Georeferenced data None of the above 11 Select the tasks you have performed in reviewing, evaluating or analyzing information to ensure its compliance with laws, regulations, policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Conducted inter-agency review of policy exceptions, national security concerns, foreign policy issues, or other legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. Coordinated review of records to determine compliance with laws and regulations. Inquired into the details of a transaction in order to establish facts and confirm authenticity. Analyzed reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. Made referrals of cases for administrative or legal proceedings. None of the above. 12 Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues: Answer to this question is required I have no experience in the negotiation of complex issues. I have supported the negotiation of complex issues, but I have not served as the primary negotiator. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and resolving problems. I have negotiated complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, diffusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solution on controversial issues. 13 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of US foreign assistance issues: Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International Organizations (IO) (members or staff) Non-governmental organization (NGO) or academic institution General public None of the Above 14 From the choices below, select those in which you have participated in which support activities to regulate the international trade of conventional arms: Answer to this question is required Arms Trade Treaty UN Group of Government Experts UN open-ended working groups Preparatory Committees Conferences Represent the US in meetings with NGOs, academia and/or the media None of the above 15 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to conventional arms transfer issues in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Research, development, testing, and production of foreign conventional weapons systems Technical specifications and capabilities of foreign conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with foreign marketing and sales of advanced conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with U.S. marketing and sales - both corporate and governmental - associated with conventional military systems U.S. and international mechanisms for controlling foreign transfer of conventional weapons to countries / entities of concern None of the above 16 Please identify, from the following list, those sectors of the Foreign Affairs community in which you have established and maintained professional liaison: Answer to this question is required Private Industry U.S. Department of State (DOS) National Security Agency (NSA) Department of Defense (DOD) Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Homeland Security (HS) Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) International Organizations (IO) United Nations (UN) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Non-governmental organizations dealing with energy issues Non-governmental organizations dealing with economic / commercial issues Think Tanks None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.