Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 GS-10: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualifications requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is in or related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I do not meet the specialized experience requirement as described on this announcement. 3 Do you possess a typing skill of at least 40 wpm (based on a 5 minute typing test with fewer than 3 errors)? Note: Individuals may be required to take a typing exam. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select all software applications which you have used to produce a work product: Answer to this question is required Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Access Desktop Publishing Software Travel management applications / systems (e.g., Travel Manager, FedTrip) Internet Browsers (e.g., Internet Explorer, Firefox) Web-based programs Database Management tools None of the above 5 Select the choices which describe your ability to communicate orally with a variety of customers in order to obtain and provide information. Answer to this question is required I have greeted visitors, relayed messages, and answered and redirected telephone calls. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explain non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff or small project work group meetings, or meetings with fellow team members). I have assisted disgruntled customers and/or directed them to the appropriate source for information. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations on office administrative matters. I have greeted foreign dignitaries and visitors, relayed messages and answered and/or redirected their calls and/or inquiries. I have served as a point of contact for briefings, meetings and/or conferences disseminating a variety of information. None of the above. 6 Select from the list below the type of guidance and direction that you provide to others: Answer to this question is required Correct procedures in preparing correspondence Preparing purchase orders and/or requisitioning office supplies Preparing travel orders / vouchers Scheduling meetings / briefings Utilizing office automated systems Explaining non-technical policies and procedures Responding to requests for information concerning office functions / mission Explaining recordkeeping and filing systems Office procedures Obtaining repair services Protection of classified / sensitive information None of the above. 7 Please select the response that best describes your experience with correspondence. Answer to this question is required Type in final from draft, ensuring documents are grammatically correct. Complete form letters. Draft responses to routine requests for information. Review all outgoing correspondence for clarity, grammar, and spelling. Draft responses to routine or administrative inquiries. Review final correspondence prepared by others to ensure conformance with policy and regulations. Write non-routine communications or reports that are disseminated outside assigned work area. Create form letters to handle recurring inquiries on same subject. Edit correspondence prepared for supervisor's signature to clarify language or correct grammatical errors. Communicate in writing to all levels of an organization on non-routine matters. Ensure final correspondence has all necessary clearances, is signed, all attachments and enclosures are included and package is forwarded. Instruct subordinate offices on correspondence policies and procedures. None of the above. 8 Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings or conferences? Answer to this question is required Make arrangements for meeting facilities, set dates, notify participants and arrange to provide the necessary supplies and equipment that will be used. Arrange travel and secure authorization for expense reimbursements for guest attendees, speakers, or consultants. Draft the meeting or conference agenda, draft presentation outlines, assemble supporting materials and prepare formal presentation slides and handouts. Arrange social functions held for conference participants. Attend the meeting or conference, record minutes and action items, publish final minutes, and follow up to assure that commitments made are carried out within agreed upon time frames. None of the above. 9 Please select the responses that describe your qualifications with travel arrangements and authorizations: Answer to this question is required Prepare travel authorizations and vouchers. Made domestic travel reservations/arrangements for others and maintain record of itinerary. Made foreign travel reservations / arrangements for others and maintain record of itinerary. Make travel and hotel reservations for large meetings/conferences. Review travel vouchers for accuracy and completeness. Resolved errors in travel vouchers submitted using automated voucher system. None of the above. 10 From the list below, select all those that apply to the maintenance of your supervisor's calendar. Answer to this question is required Do not maintain supervisor's calendar. Refer all requests for appointments to the supervisor for decision. Use independent judgment in scheduling most of supervisor's appointments. Contact parties to confirm or reschedule supervisor's appointments. Notify the supervisor of pending appointments and provide background material. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.