Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Do you have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to next lower Grade in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully (in projects) led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines, and expectations. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience in building consensus and facilitating cooperative and collaborative relationships? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have strong leadership, teamwork, and interpersonal skills and/or experience in managing complex projects and working collaboratively with diverse individuals and groups. I have experience working with and/or leading multi-disciplined teams and committees which included establishing and meeting programmatic goals, setting priorities, assigning work, consensus building, and fostering teamwork. I have led and facilitated collaborative teams and relationships with required stakeholders. I have managed projects which required teamwork and resolution of differences or conflicts. None of the above. 4 Which of the following activities related to project management in an institution, agency or campus environment have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing, planning, and tracking budgets for multi-year, multi-million dollar projects. I have worked on a multi-disciplinary project team in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have led a multi-disciplinary project team in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting and was responsible for assigning project-related work and tracking its completion. I have provided support for to a project team working on a large project in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have personally managed a large (more than $1,000,000), multi-year project in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have personally managed a small (less than $1,000,000), single or multi-year project in a museum (or similar cultural institution) setting. I have completed formal leadership training and have knowledge of leadership principles and methods. 5 Which of the following describes your ability to build consensus and facilitate cooperative and collaborative relationships? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have strong leadership, teamwork, and interpersonal skills and/or experience in managing complex projects and working collaboratively with diverse individuals and groups. I have experience working with and/or leading multi-disciplined teams and committees which included establishing and meeting programmatic goals, setting priorities, assigning work, consensus building, and fostering teamwork. I have lead and facilitated collaborative teams and relationships with required stakeholders. I have managed projects which required teamwork and resolution of differences or conflicts. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements describes the communication/briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job, as necessary, to support agency goals and the agency leadership? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in writing or in presentations. I have explained or justified agency decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have briefed managers outside the organization on agency goals and objectives. I have demonstrated ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals I have mediated problems and facilitated a resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal setting. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative view points, or to take particular courses or action. I have communicated strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have presented, advocated, or negotiated specific goals and needs. I have delivered training presentations to varied audiences of different sizes. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements describes the communication/briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job, as necessary, to support financial reporting requirements. agency goals and the agency leadership for a museum or cultural institution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in writing or in presentations. I have demonstrated ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals. I have mediated problems and facilitated a resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal setting. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take particular courses or action. I have delivered financial training presentations to varied audiences of different sizes. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements describes the communication/briefing skills you use as a regular part of your job, as necessary, to support agency goals and the agency leadership for a museum or cultural institution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in writing or in presentations. I have explained or justified agency decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations. I have briefed managers outside the organization on agency goals and objectives. I have demonstrated ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals. I have mediated problems and facilitated a resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal setting. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take particular courses or action. I have communicated strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have presented, advocated, or negotiated specific goals and needs. I have delivered training presentations to varied audiences of different sizes. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, managing projects, and reporting status updates to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and projects as project coordinator, and reported status updates independently. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and projects as project coordinator, and reported status updates to management under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and assisted with the coordination of programs and projects, and reported status updates to project manager. I have education or training evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, and coordinating programs and projects but I have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 10 Do you have experience evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, managing projects, and reporting status updates to management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following demonstrate your experience communicating in a professional or customer service environment assisting diverse groups. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Museum professionals Administrative staff Clerical personnel Contractors General public Resident Engineers Construction Management staff None of the above 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 13 Which of the following types of written communication have you created or reviewed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Edited specifications. Submittals. Position paper. Components of technical reports. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience presenting ideas clearly and concisely in writing? Answer to this question is required I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written communication, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.