Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to perform program oversight and administration.** Demonstrated experience in program oversight and administration for organization-hosted programs, collection displays, and/or events in a cultural heritage institution. This work entailed: 1) overseeing logistics, planning, and preparation; 2) collaborating with peers both within and outside of organization to meet goals; 3) planning and administering outreach; 4) maintaining calendars, checklists, and/or trackers for administrative requests; 5) collecting and analyzing data to discern program patterns, trends, and effectiveness; 6) developing strategies and proposals to improve programs; 7) implementing approved policy-compliant plans and objectives to improve and expand program effectiveness; and 8) overseeing and ensuring adequate training for events or programs staff. Answer to this question is required Independently provided program administration for an organization or agency. In doing so conducted ALL of the above items in a cultural heritage institution. Independently or as part of a team, provided program administration for an organization or agency. In doing so, conducted SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above items in a cultural heritage institution. As part of a team, provided program administration for an organization or agency. In doing so, conducted FIVE (5) of the above items in a cultural heritage institution. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide consultation and liaison services.** Demonstrated experience in consultation and liaison services for events and public programming on behalf of a a cultural heritage n agency or organization. Connections were established, leveraged, and maintained to meet program goals and objectives. Collaboration activities and initiatives included: 1) advising managers, supervisors, and program and administrative staff on operational and program matters; 2) participating in event committees and meetings; 3) serving as a proactive facilitator between custodial and curatorial units and collaborative partners within organization; 4) reviewing, revising, and finalizing plans for events with sponsors; and 5) maintaining communication and feedback channels with stakeholders to plan, administer, fulfill, and improve events and program objectives. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships through various methods and means such as participation as an information resource, program administrator, event committee member, and/or liaison. In doing so, conducted ALL of the above tasks with groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional relationships through various methods and means such as participation as an information resource, program administrator, event committee member, and/or liaison. In doing so, conducted FOUR (4) of the above tasks with groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional relationships through various methods and means such as participation as an information resource, program administrator, event committee member, and/or liaison. In doing so, conducted THREE (3) of the above tasks with groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to communicate in writing.** Produced clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation for communications for an agency or organization program. Written products included: 1) executive level briefings; 2) event management procedure guidance; 3) informative and/or promotional materials for distribution or display (e.g., captions for collections displays, brochures, fliers, press releases, announcements, letters, etc.); 4) correspondence; 5) memoranda; and 6) evaluative reports on program data and outcomes. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote ALL of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Consistently met deadlines. Systematically ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required editing by supervisors. Independently or under minimal supervision, wrote FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Consistently met deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work occasionally required editing by supervisors. Independently or under minimal supervision, wrote THREE (3) of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Met assignment deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work occasionally required editing by supervisors. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to present information orally. Conveyed information orally in a clear, polite, well-organized, and well-informed manner to external and internal collaborators and leadership. In doing so, translated complex data, concepts, and information into digestible language and actionable recommendations. Oral deliverables included: 1) meetings; 2) electronic communications; 3) presentations; 4) panels and/or working groups, and 5) briefings for a range of management levels. Answer to this question is required Regularly and independently conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and well-informed manner for ALL of the activities listed above. Communications occurred in a variety of settings, both formal (led discussions, working groups, panels, and meetings, and represents the organization to external audiences) and informal (telephone conversations, email). Regularly and independently conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and well-informed manner for FOUR (4) of the activities listed above. Communications occurred in a variety of settings, both formal (led discussions, working groups, panels, and meetings, and represents the organization to external audiences) and informal (telephone conversations, email). Regularly and independently conveyed information orally in a clear, well-organized, and well-informed manner for THREE (3) of the activities listed above. Communications occurred in a variety of settings, both formal (led discussions, working groups, panels, and meetings, and represents the organization to external audiences) and informal (telephone conversations, email). None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).