Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following procurement duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering a variety of goods and services. Entering procurement data into an automated system. Tracking delivery of goods and services. Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders. Completing a variety of procurement forms. Purchasing a variety of goods and services. Obtaining prices for available goods and services. Conducting market surveys for available goods and services. Conducting inventories and maintaining property accountability. I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties. I do not have experience, education or training in procurement. 3 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 4 Which of the following procurement duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering/purchasing a variety of goods and services. Entering procurement data into an automated system. Tracking delivery of goods and services. Ensuring appropriate approval for procurement orders. Completing a variety of procurement forms. Obtaining prices for available goods and services. Conducting market surveys for available goods and services. Conducting inventories and maintaining property accountability. I have education and/or training in procurement, but I do not have experience performing these duties. I do not have experience, education, or training in procurement. 5 Which of the following reflect your experience providing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (ie, statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement. I have trained and coached other staff on administrative functions such as procurement. I have established and maintained controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 6 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 7 Which of the following best describes your experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience tracking and overseeing day to day purchase card operations and implementing internal control measures to improve operations and cost effectiveness as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing multiple assignments, conflicting priorities, and multi-tasking, all while maintaining good customer service and meeting various deadlines during the procurement process or when submitting a purchase request package? Answer to this question is required I have experience working under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur, while maintaining a customer service focus, meeting deadlines, and solving program issues concurrently. I have experience working under pressure to complete accurate, timely, and technically sound work while providing good customer service focus and meeting deadlines. I have experience accomplishing tasks while maintaining good customer service. I have experience accomplishing tasks; however, customer service has not been a requirement None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices best describes your ability to work effectively under pressure, or where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience where I have had to work under pressure or deadlines. I have had education or training, but I have not had experience working under pressure or deadlines. I have had experience where I was sometimes assigned clear deadlines in addition to my standard duties or assignments in a stable work environment. I have had experience where I was sometimes assigned clear deadlines in addition to my standard duties or assignments in a fluctuating or stressful work environment. I have had experience where I was routinely expected to meet multiple deadlines in a work environment with changing duties and responsibilities, and/or where I coordinated the work of others to meet deadlines or organizational goals in an environment with changing duties and responsibilities. 10 Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages. Answer to this question is required I have experience rearranging workload priorities to complete the procurement process and submit purchase request packages while maintaining a timely and high-quality level of performance on other assigned actions. I have experience dealing with assignments that are “out of the ordinary”, oftentimes with program personnel that have no prior experience with the procurement process. I have experience completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages under a great deal of pressure to meet extremely short deadlines while dealing with the demands for action that may be improper or unfeasible. I have some experience in completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in planning, coordinating and establishing work tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines during the procurement process? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in planning, coordinating and establishing work tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines during the procurement process. I have completed training in planning, coordinating and establishing work tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines during the procurement process, but have not performed this task on the job. I have planned, coordinated and established tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines during the procurement process on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have planned, coordinated and established work tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines during the procurement process as a part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have planned, coordinated and established work tracking systems to monitor action items and office deadlines during the procurement process as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following describe your experience providing customer service to the public and/or staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received telephone calls, inquiries or requests for information, and determined referral or provided information to caller. I have interacted with the public and staff members exercising tact and diplomacy. I have responded to routine inquiries and directed more technical inquiries to appropriate parties. I have maintained an on-going relationship with customers, identified customer needs or problems and taken corrective action. I have exercised tact in responding to telephone calls, screening calls, and referring calls to appropriate staff members or personally handling matters not requiring technical knowledge. I have used customer service skills to work with individuals both internal and external to the organization. I have worked effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur. I have maintained composure under stressful situations in dealing with a variety of people. I have independently followed through on informational requests and been able to adapt to fluctuating deadlines and priorities. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following most accurately describes your experience and/or ability to communicate with customers? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry instructions and directions. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical and routine matters. I have had work experience in applying communications skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues I have had work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communications skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in establishing positive working relationships with internal and external partners? Answer to this question is required I have no experience establishing positive working relationships with internal and external partners. I have experience establishing positive working relationships with internal and external partners under close supervision and with guidance from other colleagues. I have experience establishing positive working relationships with internal and external partners independently. I have experience establishing positive working relationships with internal and external partners independently and have supervised or trained others in this task. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience/education performing financial and procurement-related duties? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience using a computerized financial accounting system to prepare purchase orders and requisitions, assign accounting codes, monitor fund availability, process invoices for payment, generate expenditure reports, and prepare travel authorizations and vouchers. I have experience using a computerized financial accounting system to prepare purchase orders and requisitions, assign accounting codes, and monitor fund availability; I may also have some experience with reporting or travel processing. I have basic experience using a computerized financial accounting system and/or preparing purchase orders or requisitions. I do not have the experience or education as described above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience using automated financial reporting systems (e.g. Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Farsight)? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience using automated financial reporting systems as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 17 Which of the following tasks have you performed, on a regular basis, that demonstrates your ability to use PeopleSoft or a similar automated financial system? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Entering small purchase orders Entering requisitions Entering change orders Entering purchases with multiple funding lines Entering receiving reports Tracking payments Adding vendors Investigating "match exceptions" I have not performed any of the above tasks Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.