Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024 Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Toggle navigation About Us Jobs at PBGC Resume Tips Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? Answer to this question is required Facebook (BeKnown) Facebook LinkedIn Twitter word of mouth USAJobs Executive Search Firm Vocational rehabilitation center College posting Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) Veteran’s job fair/job board Diversity job fair/job board Professional organization (e.g., NABA, ABBA, SOA, AICPA, etc.) Niche (or trade) job fair or job board Efinancial.com INDEED.com Wall Street Journal Veterans Disability Organizations Other Prefer not to answer 2 If you answered "Other", please provide the resource here. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Have you accepted a buyout or an early out from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you currently a contractor at PBGC? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 10 Please describe your experience using artificial intelligence (AI) tools or technology in a professional or personal setting. Include examples of how you used AI to improve efficiency, decision-making, communication, research, analysis, or work products. Maximum length of 1500 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;div&gt;Note: Your response will not be rated or used to determine your qualifications. It will be provided only to the hiring manager for consideration&lt;/div&gt; View Vacancy Details For assistance, please use the contact information from the Job Announcement. Connect with us on Facebook Connect with us on Twitter Connect with us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our YouTube channel This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).