Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Developed standard operating procedure(s). Modified existing network programs. Monitored computer security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy. Inspected computer sites to ensure information security procedures were in place and were being consistently followed. Modified existing network programs. Estimated resources needed to implement network. Used existing plans to test specific application programs. Reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Determined availability of space for hardware. Recognized hardware/software problems and resolved. Used technical specification to install hardware/software. Identified problems and referred to second or third tier group for final resolution. Customer Service : Presented information regarding systems requirements and/or resolved problems encountered. Installed peripherals (i.e., printers, scanners, monitors) for end-users. Briefed staff on procedural changes. Provided training to users on new policies. Responded in writing to questions from customers seeking guidance on a routine computer related issue. Attended implementation meetings with customers. Attended design meetings with users. Performed research on user needs. Estimated resources needed to implement a network. Served as computer contact for users on routine or non-critical matters. Analyzed individual user requirements to assist in identifying appropriate IT solutions for work assignments. Coordinated efforts in the installation of computer programs. Prepared e-mail instructions to end-users informing them how to complete a specific task. Oral Communication : Contacted vendor for release of new software packages. Contacted vendor for information on retraining staff using another computer language. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Responded to information security and audit related questions. Contacted persons within the agency regarding problematic areas. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Facilitated and provided information technology training. Performed research for IT user needs. Provided support for IT end users and management. Responded to recurring IT external inquiries. Coordinated IT vendor demonstrations for end users and provided an interface with the vendor. Assisted in providing IT formal training to others on network operations, protocols and trouble shooting. Problem Solving : Provided advice and guidance on various IT specialty issues. Isolated a programming problem and referred it appropriately. Ensured corrective actions to restore IT operational service. Oversaw function tests of IT hardware/software to resolve technical problems and ensure appropriate on-site repair. Recognized and resolved IT hardware and software problems. Reviewed IT hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting on PC's and related IT equipment. Detected and corrected a network security deficiency in a workstation or server configuration. Recommended a method to make the network more efficient. Performed routine troubleshooting on PC's. Worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine IT software/hardware problems. Tested specific IT software application programs. Checked intranet system and/or areas requiring security improvements. Resolved routine IT project related issues. Coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager. Analyzed and resolved non-routine network problems. 1 In addition to meeting the competencies listed above, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicants must have knowledge and technical experience of IT hardware and software configurations, thus providing a solid foundation for the ability to dispense IT security techniques; Experience in developing and analyzing IT security reports and vulnerability management scans; Experience in identifying, reporting, mitigating and resolving system vulnerabilities using a variety of hardware and software tools; AND Experience in analyzing IT security policies, standards and procedures. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position and my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Computer Specialist analyze network system design needs, anticipate problems in computer programs or hardware, and propose and implement solutions. In the process of advising management, he/she must develop alternative approaches to major aspects of Information Technology system design and must detect whether problems are due to user error or hardware/software error. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have installed and configured file servers for use in a large multi-user network; and/or I have served as a consultant or lead technical specialist for the planning and implementation, including infrastructure, hardware, software, and capacity requirements for a large multi-user computer network; and/or I have performed network administrator functions including user administration, backup/recovery, file security, application launching, and software upgrades for a large multi-user computer system; and/or I have served on a re-engineering committee; and/or I have served as a team leader to re design a system after the problem was diagnosed; and/or I have integrated and installed hardware components during large scale computer upgrade. I have designed and implemented networks/modified existing networks; and/or I have estimated resources needed to implement network, including standards, protocols, and equipment requirements; and/or I have analyzed statistics and recommended a method to make the network more efficient, which was subsequently adopted by management. I have installed and administered multiple web servers/firewalls; and/or I have designed and installed network cabling; and/or I have reviewed facility or site needs and developed a complete network system design plan which was subsequently implemented on a facility wide basis; and/or I have installed and administered a Local Area Network (LAN), servers and workstations. None of the above. 6 The Computer Specialist must help manage the Bureau of Prisons personal computers and mainframe systems, including security baselines, operating systems, applications, and hardware. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained equipment to ensure compatibility and connectivity of Local Area Network (LAN) or mainframe hardware; and/or I have installed and maintained Local Area Network (LAN) communications hardware or mainframe system hardware; and/or I have designed or installed personal computer application software or database software routine for multiple (100+) users; and/or I have served as a local authority in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. I have installed video cards, drives, modems; and/or I have installed peripherals (i.e., printers, scanners, monitors); and/or I have performed routine troubleshooting duties on personal computers. I have provided minor adjustments or maintenance on Local Area Network (LAN) or a mainframe system; and/or I have maintained Local Area Network (LAN) communications hardware or mainframe system hardware; and/or I have installed personal computer application software or database software routines for users; and/or I have provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. None of the above. 7 The Computer Specialist must communicate technical information with end users in a non-technical clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed briefings or demonstrations for upper management on a new computer system; and/or I have assessed an end-user’s problem and solicited help from a technical support group; and/or I have taught a computer course to end users of all knowledge base levels; and/or I have served as an arbitrator in reaching agreement over major disputes regarding computer products, services, or charges with an external entity. I have contacted a vendor for technical support in resolving end user problems; and/or I have obtained user requirements for Automated Data Processing (ADP) equipment/software applications; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems internal to the organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of a programming problem with existing software. I have contacted vendor for release of new software package; and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine software/hardware problems; and/or I have explained security procedures and measures in place. None of the above. 8 The Computer Specialist develops technical documentation, such as systems design, user guides, data flow diagrams, and program specifications. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed data flow diagrams; and/or I have completed sections of larger reports for review by management concerning information technology use or proposals; and/or I have completed sections of technical instruction manuals for use by end users concerning new software or new hardware procedures; and/or I have revised established functional requirements documentation. I have developed several end users guides which were adopted and implemented agency/organization wide; and/or I have established complex functional requirements documentation; and/or I have written a personal computer operation manual; and/or I have developed systems design; and/or I have technical procedures to be applied by an agency/organization or corporation. I have prepared instructional e-mails to end users informing them how to complete a specific task; and/or I have responded in writing to questions received seeking guidance on resolving routine computer related issues; and/or I have assisted in revising/preparing functional requirements documentation. None of the above. 9 The Computer Specialist must ensure that computer security measures, as prescribed by policy statements, are being followed. He/she employs hardware and software safeguards, implement changes to current security systems, and train staff members on proper security measures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended and implemented a department-wide computer security plan and informed managers of necessary resource requirements; and/or I have devised and implemented an educational program on hardware and software security; and/or I have designed department/organization/region wide computer security plan, applying both hardware and software security measures; and/or I have developed and implemented new levels of security; and/or I have designed a complete agency/organization security plan and made periodic audits to ensure proper measures were being followed; and/or I have correlated log files and provided security analysis of findings; and/or I have developed code or new options for a security system. I have recommended a modification to a department-wide computer security plan and informed managers of necessary resource requirements; and/or I have updated an educational program on hardware and software security; and/or I have designed part of a security plan and engaged in periodic audits to ensure proper measures were being followed; and/or I have revised security procedures; and/or I have enforced security procedures by reviewing log files and taking appropriate steps regarding security violators as established by agency guidelines; and/or I have provided security training to personnel; and/or I have designed a portion of an agency/organization information security plan. I have controlled the physical storage of media; and/or I have monitored security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy; and/or I have used agency’s security procedures to determine when to call or code existing security subroutines or options; and/or I have detected and corrected a security deficiency in a software program; and/or I have inspected various computer work sites to ensure information security procedures are in place and being consistently followed. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).