Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your skill in identifying and adopting best practices in the industry for a museum, research, or educational organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience benchmarking best practices in the industry and leading the adoption of practices for a museum, research, or educational organization and can provide specific examples upon request. As a member of the Privacy program staff in a museum, research, or educational organization I have experience researching best practices and sharing the information with others for consideration. I have experience identifying or adopting best practices for an organization other than a museum, research, or educational organization. I do not have experience with identifying or adopting best practices in the industry. 3 Do you currently hold a Certified Information Privacy Professional certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing policy and procedural guidance for an organization's Privacy Program. Answer to this question is required I have independently written policy or procedural guidance for an organization’s Privacy Program and can provide an example upon request. I have developed policy or procedural guidance that addressed Privacy laws and regulations, with minimal oversight, and can provide an example upon request. I have contributed to the development of policy or procedural guidance for a Privacy Program. I do not have experience preparing policy or procedural guidance for an organization’s Privacy Program, however I am knowledgeable about general privacy laws and procedures. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying privacy risk. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have work experience conducting 20 or more privacy risk assessments annually. Including responsibility for conducting privacy reviews, writing findings, recommendations for improvements, and risk mitigation. I have work experience conducting 10 or more privacy risk assessments annually. Applicant has no experience performing assessments of Privacy Programs. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting compliance reviews for a museum, research or educational organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience participating in privacy risk assessment reviews in a museum, research, or educational organization. This experience included responsibility for a specific portion of the review such as evaluating privacy risks or threats to program objectives. I have experience conducting privacy risk assessments independently or serving as the lead reviewer in a museum, research, or educational organization. This experience included applying evaluation techniques and tools to identify privacy risks, protective actions and mitigating potential threats to program objectives. I have experience conducting reviews in a setting other than a museum, research, or educational organization. This experience included applying evaluation techniques and tools to identify privacy risks, protective actions and mitigating potential threats to program objectives. I have not performed any of the above tasks in a museum, research or educational organization. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying and developing training materials for an organization's Privacy Program? Answer to this question is required I have experience identifying privacy training requirements and serving as a contributing author for developing training materials for organizational staff. I have experience contributing to the development of privacy training materials for an organization’s Privacy Program. I have experience identifying Privacy Program training requirements and serving as the lead author for developing training materials for organizational staff. I do not have any experience identifying privacy training requirements or developing Privacy Program training materials. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience conducting Privacy Program related training for an organization? Answer to this question is required I have experience identifying vendors to conduct privacy training for an organization. I have experience conducting in-person Privacy Program trainings to staff of an organization. I have experience administering and/or facilitating Privacy Program related training staff. I do not have any experience conducting training on privacy programs. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience writing incident reports? Answer to this question is required I have experience writing memoranda and/or briefings to key stakeholders on incidents involving personally identifiable information. I have experience assisting in writing memoranda on incidents involving personally identifiable information. I have no experience writing incident reports. 10 Which of the following statements describe your written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. I have produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. I have composed complex correspondence or other written work such as manuals, management reports or articles. I have prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations in written format. I have reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization or material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.