Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes This position oversees a highly technical, complex, agency-wide classification and compensation program to include the development of position descriptions, alignment of positions, job structuring, and their impact on pay determinations. Examples of specialized experience for this position include: (1) Comprehensive technical knowledge of laws, regulations, policies, principles and practices associated with classification and compensation, position management and familiarity with relevant Federal personnel processes and procedures. (2) Demonstrated knowledge of Federal classification concepts, principles and practices related to structuring organizations and positions and determining the appropriate pay system, occupational grouping, title and pay level of positions. (3) Mastery of and skill in applying advanced HR principles, including compensation principles, concepts and practices, including multiple pay systems and authorities sufficient to serve as an expert staff-level advisor providing authoritative advice and assistance to program managers and operating HR specialists. (4) Demonstrated ability to ensure that the classification system aligns with the guiding principle of equal pay for work of substantially equal value. (5) Proven ability to provide leadership and supervision to a diverse team of employees, both civilian and contractors, delivering position classification and compensation services. No 2 Select the statements that describe how you attained your ability to design and implement new programs and processes. Answer to this question is required Devised new methods, procedures, and approaches that had agency-wide impact. Developed a new performance management system that aligned with the agency vision. Created new methods for planning, designing, and carrying out program objectives. Organized and lead cross-divisional work groups to develop creative solutions to address problems. Displayed creativity by deviating from traditional methods in developing new procedures. None of the Above 3 Describe your level of experience creating a compensation strategy for an agency. Answer to this question is required &lt;p&gt;Please select the best answer that describes your experience.&lt;/p&gt; My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 4 Describe your level of experience as it relates to compensation studies, more specifically, trade studies, market equity reviews and desk audits. Answer to this question is required &lt;p&gt;Please select the best answer that describes your experience.&lt;/p&gt; My experience on the subject matter is at an expert level and is detailed on my resume. If asked, I can provide several specific experience details orally. I do have some direct experience on the subject matter, and it is outlined on my resume. I can explain my specific experience if asked. My experience with the subject matter is minimal. I do not have specific experience details on my resume. If asked, I can speak on what I know about the subject matter orally. I do not have experience on the subject matter; however, I am familiar with it. I can explain my familiarity if asked. I do not have experience with the subject matter. I am not too familiar with it; however, I am willing to learn. 5 Which response best describes your experience interpreting the Federal Evaluation System (FES) to classify positions? Answer to this question is required I have applied the OPM Factor Evaluation System (FES) to perform a classification series or job family study. I have applied the FES to perform position-specific job evaluation. I have completed education or training on the FES, but have not applied this information in my work I do not have experience applying the OPM Factor Evaluation System (FES). 6 Select the types of positions for which you prepared evaluation statements that documented how you determined the official position title, pay plan, series, and grade. Answer to this question is required Federal Wage System occupations General Schedule positions Supervisory positions covered by the General Schedule Supervisory Guide Supervisory positions covered by the Federal Wage System Job Grading Standard for Supervisors Leader positions covered by the General Schedule Leader Grade Evaluation Guide Leader positions covered by the Federal Wage System Job Grading Standard for Leaders None of the above 7 Choose the statements that best describes your ability to administer a classification program. Answer to this question is required Evaluated agency-wide classification policies and procedures. Provided leadership and support to a position classification and/or position management program, including the development and implementation of organizational policies, objectives, and procedures to govern development and classification of positions and procedures to govern execution of HR responsibilities for agency reorganizations. Ensured agency-wide position classification accuracy and consistency in interpreting and applying position classification standards and in reviewing classification appeal packages. Provided advice to senior level officials on complex and multi-faceted position management issues. None of the above. 8 Please select the tasks you perform on a regular and recurring basis. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;Answer to this question is required&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt; Review employee’s HR work for quality and technical accuracy. Provide technical guidance to a team on staffing and/or classification matters. Represent the office or HR in meetings or briefings with high level officials or executives. Develop and/or recommend training for HR staff based on individual needs. None of the above. 9 Select the response(s) that describe your experience identifying and analyzing HR problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;Answer to this question is required&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt; Developed comprehensive material for reports, training, briefings or meetings of senior management officials. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations to management officials within the organization. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Interpreted and applied statutes and regulations. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Provided automated solutions to organizational problems. Provided input for HR policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. None of the above. 10 Have you delivered presentations to explain organizational policies and procedures to employees and management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Choose the settings in which you discussed position classification matters. Answer to this question is required Conducted or led briefings, meetings, and training conferences on position classification. Developed and gave formal briefings or presentations to management officials on classification. Advised employees or managers one-on-one concerning technical classification issues. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations on classification issues to managers, supervisors, and employees. Discussed classification determinations with management and employees in order to defend rationale for determination. Interviewed employees and/or supervisors to gather information about duties and responsibilities. Presented classification findings before management officials. Briefed other HR Specialists on the impact of classification actions. Conducted training for agency-wide managers and supervisors on their role and responsibility regarding position classification and classification appeals. Briefed senior management officials on matters involving significant or controversial position structure and classification issues. Trained or provided guidance and instructions to HR Specialists on classification matters. None of the above. 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.