Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Specialized experience is experience gained in the automotive field. This could have been gained working as a skilled auto mechanic, auto repair part sales, service/tech writer or in other automotive fields. This experience must have involved performing the following types of duties: guiding in the process of securing cost effective vehicle repairs; insuring compliance of contract agreements with contractors for repair services & supplies; evaluating & advising management on customers' complaints about vehicle & vendor performance; determining fairness of repair estimates. 1 Please choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education: Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I have a master's or equivalent degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or JD, in a field related to this position. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-9 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-7 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). Grade: 11 Specialized experience is experience gained in the automotive field. This could have been gained working as a skilled auto mechanic, auto repair part sales, service/tech writer or in other automotive fields. This experience involved performing the following types of duties: performing complex analytical work involving gathering information, identifying and analyzing issues, and developing recommendations to resolve substantive problems of a large fleet maintenance center. 1 Please choose the answer that best describes your experience and/or education: Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as stated above. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., in a field related to this position. I possess a combination of graduate level education and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements of this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Please check the statement that applies to you, relating to time-in-grade requirements for the GS-11 level. Answer to this question is required I have held a position in the General Schedule at a grade equal to or higher than a GS-9 for at least one full year (or will have within 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.) I am in a pay plan other than the General Schedule (for instance the Wage Grade, or a pay banding system). I have not held a permanent position in the federal General Schedule in the past 52 weeks. I am applying under a special hiring authority (for instance, Peace Corps, veterans hiring programs, disability employment). None of the above apply to me (You will not be considered for this position at this grade). 3 Please check the statements that apply to you, relating to your eligibility for noncompetitive consideration for a full performance level GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I am currently at the GS-11 level on a permanent basis in the competitive service. I have previously held the GS-11 level or higher on a permanent basis in the competitive service. The full performance level of my current position (or another permanent position I have held in the competitive service) is GS-11 or higher. I am applying under a special hiring authority other than the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA). None of the above apply to me. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. 1 I understand that if I am selected for this position, I will be required to complete (within a designated time frame as determined by management) all training and education requirements needed to obtain and maintain a Fleet Warrant Program certification. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).