Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Developed standard operating procedure(s). Modified existing network programs. Monitored computer security procedures to determine if employees were adhering to policy. Inspected computer sites to ensure information security procedures were in place and were being consistently followed. Modified existing network programs. Estimated resources needed to implement network. Used existing plans to test specific application programs. Reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Determined availability of space for hardware. Recognized hardware/software problems and resolved. Used technical specification to install hardware/software. Identified problems and referred to second or third tier group for final resolution. Customer Service : Presented information regarding systems requirements and/or resolved problems encountered. Installed peripherals (i.e., printers, scanners, monitors) for end-users. Briefed staff on procedural changes. Provided training to users on new policies. Responded in writing to questions from customers seeking guidance on a routine computer related issue. Attended implementation meetings with customers. Attended design meetings with users. Performed research on user needs. Estimated resources needed to implement a network. Served as computer contact for users on routine or non-critical matters. Analyzed individual user requirements to assist in identifying appropriate IT solutions for work assignments. Coordinated efforts in the installation of computer programs. Prepared e-mail instructions to end-users informing them how to complete a specific task. Oral Communication : Contacted vendor for release of new software packages. Contacted vendor for information on retraining staff using another computer language. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Responded to information security and audit related questions. Contacted persons within the agency regarding problematic areas. Explained security procedures and measures in place. Facilitated and provided information technology training. Performed research for IT user needs. Provided support for IT end users and management. Responded to recurring IT external inquiries. Coordinated IT vendor demonstrations for end users and provided an interface with the vendor. Assisted in providing IT formal training to others on network operations, protocols and trouble shooting. Problem Solving : Provided advice and guidance on various IT specialty issues. Isolated a programming problem and referred it appropriately. Ensured corrective actions to restore IT operational service. Oversaw function tests of IT hardware/software to resolve technical problems and ensure appropriate on-site repair. Recognized and resolved IT hardware and software problems. Reviewed IT hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment. Performed diagnostics and troubleshooting on PC's and related IT equipment. Detected and corrected a network security deficiency in a workstation or server configuration. Recommended a method to make the network more efficient. Performed routine troubleshooting on PC's. Worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine IT software/hardware problems. Tested specific IT software application programs. Checked intranet system and/or areas requiring security improvements. Resolved routine IT project related issues. Coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager. Analyzed and resolved non-routine network problems. 1 In addition to meeting the competencies listed above, you must also have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the specialized experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: Applicant must have experience in the last twelve months using one or more of the following language or software development environments: Model View Controller (MVC) Framework, J2EE, Java, JavaScript, HyperText Markup Language (HTML), POSGRESQL and Structured Query Language (SQL). AND Applicant must have experience with one or more of the following operating systems or system level software: Microsoft Windows, MySQL, Web Servers, and PC utilities. Applicants must clearly address these areas in their resume to be found qualified. 2 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position and my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Computer Specialist analyzes and anticipates system design needs, revises and debugs computer programs, and proposes and implements solutions. He/she must understand data structures to produce meaningful information and develop alternative solutions to data and system design to meet the needs of management and end users.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified and resolved system design issues in a proactive capacity; and/or I have applied a variety of debugging techniques in resolving complex software problems; and/or I have provided guidance to lower level Computer Specialists/programmers in debugging and testing programs; and/or I have identified program problems to vendors when purchasing software; and/or I have resolved software/hardware issues when designing a database management system; and/or I have planned and managed the migration of databases to new technologies (i.e., migration from client server to Web-enabled databases); and/or I have investigated, evaluated and selected tools and methods for improving productivity and software quality throughout a system life cycle. I have coded and tested changes to programs as instructed by manager; and/or I have reviewed hardware equipment for compatibility with present equipment; and/or I have isolated a programming problem and referred it for appropriate action. I have resolved system design issues; and/or I have served on a computer security committee to resolve security issues effecting the organization; and/or I have diagnosed and solved system problems as a member of a team to re-design a system; and/or I have coordinated efforts to integrate and install software/hardware components during large-scale computer upgrades; and/or I have prepared memorandum/instructions outlining the correct operation of a system. None of the above. 4 The Computer Specialist must estimate resource requirements for systems design in terms of equipment, manpower and time. He/she is required to work on simultaneous projects on a continuous basis. The Computer Specialist may be assigned oversight responsibility of several programs and must possess the ability to organize, prioritize and effectively manage workload.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed research on user needs; and/or I have contacted vendors for information on retraining staff using another computer language; and/or I have determined data storage requirements associated with project. I have presented justifications and resource requirements to department managers for modifications of software or hardware plans; and/or I have recommended large-scale upgrades of computer systems; and/or I have changed previous year’s resource plan to fit current year’s needs; and/or I have prepared comprehensive implementation plans for large scale projects. I have determined cost requirements and planned the installation of a local area network; and/or I have developed a feasibility study which included software/hardware/manpower costs; and/or I have estimated the cost to implement a computer security system and followed through to installation; and/or I have planned, coordinated and prioritized activities to be accomplished by a group as project leader of a design team. None of the above. 5 The Computer Specialist must communicate technical information with end users in a non-technical clear and concise manner.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contacted a vendor for technical support in resolving end user problems; and/or I have served as a resource person for technical problems within the organization; and/or I have informed management of the nature of a programming problem with existing software. I have performed briefings or demonstrations for upper management on a new computer system; and/or I have assessed an end user’s problem and solicited help from a technical support group; and/or I have taught a computer course to end users of all knowledge base levels; and/or I have served as an arbitrator in reaching agreement over major disputes regarding computer products, services or charges with an outside entity. I have contacted vendor for release of new software package; and/or I have worked with end users one-on-one in resolving routine software/hardware problems; and/or I have explained security procedures and measures in place. None of the above. 6 The Computer Specialist develops technical documentation, such as systems design, user guides, data flow diagrams, and program specifications. He/she must also apply existing documentation by writing programs according to specifications.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared instructional emails to end users informing them how to complete a specific task; and/or I have responded in writing to questions received seeking guidance on resolving routine computer related issues; and/or I have assisted in revising/preparing functional requirements documentation. I have developed several end user guides which were adopted and implemented agency/organization wide; and/or I have established complex functional requirements documentation; and/or I have written a Personal Computer operations manual; and/or I have developed systems design; and/or I have written technical procedures to be applied by an agency/organization corporation. I have developed data flow diagrams; and/or I have completed sections of larger reports for review by management concerning information technology use or proposals; and/or I have completed sections of technical instruction manuals for use by end users concerning new software or new hardware procedures; and/or I have revised established functional requirements documentation. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).