Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have used the following work methods and sequences when I finish cement. Answer to this question is required Lay out work to be done. Determine materials to be used. Select proper tools and equipment, including measuring and squaring devices. Construct forms of various rectangular sizes and shapes. Determine proper cement mixtures and setting time. Compress the concrete. Remove excess concrete and level the concrete. Smooth the surface, edges and corners. Cut grooves in the concrete. Trowel and broom the drying concrete. Cure and seal the concrete. I am not knowledgeable of cement finishing work methods and sequences. 3 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select all aspects of cement finishing in which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Determining when to utilize reinforcement steel or wire. Determining proper mixtures and setting times. Eliminating bubbles in the cement. Determining best finish and texture (ex. rubbing with abrasive stones, applying smooth coat of mortar, special friction finishes). Performing finishing work such as rolling curbs and shaped drainage areas. Waterproofing None of the above 5 Do you have experience tinting grouts, mortars, or cements to match the color of existing work during a remodeling or restoration project? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which response best describes your highest level of experience adhering to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations? Answer to this question is required I have experience implementing effective solutions to several types of complex problems to ensure compliance with OSHA regulations. I have experience implementing solutions developed by others to comply with OSHA regulations. I have experience identifying OSHA regulation violations and reporting findings to others. I have completed training or education on OSHA regulations but do not have relevant on the job experience. I do not have experience adhering to OSHA regulations. 7 Do you have experience reading blueprints to check measurements with field conditions? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the responses that demonstrate your communication skills. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Reads and follows specific job-related information; i.e., work orders, written instructions, material / equipment labels, etc. Reads and follows general information related to work assignments; i.e., articles in trade publications, technical / instructional manuals, memos, letters, e-mails, reports. Writes legibly and speaks clearly to ensure messages are understood. Listens carefully to understand; asks questions to clarify. None of the above. 9 Select all tools and equipment you have independently utilized to perform cement finishing work. Answer to this question is required Edgers Floats Troweling machines Abrasives Mud pumps or jack machines None of the above 10 Which tools have you used to mix cement or plaster? Answer to this question is required Mixing pans Shovels Hoes Drill mixer None of the above 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.