Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 I have provided technical assistance to managers and employees in the following human resources disciplines. Answer to this question is required Information Systems Military Classification Compensation Recruitment & Placement Employee Benefits Performance Management Human Resource Development Employee Relations Labor Relations Employee Records Management None of the above 2 Please select all of the following staffing activities which you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Develop vacancy announcements Identify quality ranking factors Assist managers in writing crediting plans Determine recruitment strategies Review applications for minimum qualifications Lead rating panels Issue merit promotion certificates Pay setting Process Personnel Actions Advise and consult with selecting officials None of the above 3 As an official part of my duties and responsibilities, I have advised managers and other Federal human resource professionals in at least two of the following areas of Federal human resource management: classification, position management, pay administration, premium pay administration, leave administration, and/or performance management. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. 4 Choose the statement that BEST describes your experience developing HR policies or procedures and coordinating the organization`s responses to legislative, regulatory or other proposals affecting HR programs. Answer to this question is required I performed this task as a regular part of my job, at the agency headquarters level. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I received formal recognition of highly-successful perfomance of this work, e.g., through awards and/or performance appraisals. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, at the agency headquarters level. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, at the bureau (or equivalent) level. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor. I performed this task independently, but not as a regular part of my job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I assisted with this task, but was not the main policy coordinator. 5 Please select from the following list the response that BEST describes your highest level of experience providing human resources advice and assistance and being viewed as an HR consultant and strategic partner in resolving key management problems: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves working with senior management to resolve unique or complex human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership with management. This includes exploring unique or untried solutions and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves working with senior management to resolve human resources issues. Upon request from management, I provide consultation and advice that includes exploring unique or untried solutions. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising or participating in meetings with middle management, either individually or in groups, to address HR issues or problems. None of the above. 6 Choose the response that BEST describes your experience managing several human resources projects simultaneously. Typically, this includes substantial interaction with peers and managers in other organizational units to facilitate the work of the organization through the coordination and integration of intra-and inter-unit activities: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task / competency. I have education and training in performing this task / competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task / competence on the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task / competency on the job with close supervision from a supervisior or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task / competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task / competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task / competency. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.