Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of K-16 educational curriculum, practices, and standards.** Acquired knowledge of K-16 educational curriculum, practices, and standards for implementation in the following: 1) development of curricula; 2) development of educational materials for learning environments; 3) collection and evaluation of classroom and/or program data; 4) reform of educational products and materials; 5) creation of guides and resources for other education professionals; 6) organization of educational and/or instructional programs, workshops, or seminars; and 7) evaluation of ongoing scholastic trends to update and refine existing materials and methods. Answer to this question is required Has knowledge of K-16 educational curriculum, practices, and standards and utilized it to conduct ALL of the above in a professional environment. Has knowledge of K-16 educational curriculum, practices, and standards and utilized it to conduct FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above in a professional environment. Has knowledge of K-16 educational curriculum, practices, and standards and utilized it to conduct FOUR (4) of the above in a colligate environment as a pupil. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to perform outreach duties and services for programs and events.** Performed outreach duties and services with individuals inside and outside the organization for programs and events. This included: 1) applying and articulating organization policies and guidelines; 2) understanding and representing stakeholder interests and concerns; 3) articulating full range of services and resources of the organization to clients; 4) ensuring the service meets client needs; 5) fostering collaborative relationships and communication; 6) drafting materials for meetings or conferences with stakeholders; and 7) attended conferences, events, or gatherings for or on behalf of an organization. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, performed outreach duties and services with individuals inside and outside the organization for programs and events, effectively resolving difficulties and complaints. In doing so, conducted ALL of the above. As a routine job responsibility, performed outreach duties and services with individuals inside and outside the organization for programs and events, effectively resolving difficulties and complaints. In doing so, conducted SIX (6) of the above. As a routine job responsibility, performed outreach duties and services with individuals inside and outside the organization for programs and events, effectively resolving difficulties and complaints. In doing so, conducted FIVE (5) of the above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to apply new and emerging technologies to the development and delivery of educational projects and/or programs. Applied existing as well as new and emerging technologies (e.g., apps for mobile devices and web surveys and other interactive presentation tools) to improve audience and partner engagement. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, developed and applied new and emerging technologies to produce and improve core program elements such as educational materials and strategic partnerships. As a routine job responsibility, identified and applied new and emerging technologies to produce core program elements such as educational materials and strategic partnerships. Occasionally applied new and emerging technologies to produce core program elements such as educational materials and strategic partnerships. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing to support K-16 educational trainings, programs, and/or projects. Demonstrated ability to write and edit clear, concise, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products for K-16 educational materials such as: 1) policies and procedures, 2) program and work plans, 3) reports (assessment, status or annual performance reports), 4) curricular materials, and 5) public relations and marketing materials. Answer to this question is required As a contributor or primary author, wrote and refined ALL of the above materials for final publication in print media and/or online formats. As primary leader or team member, facilitated the content development and publishing of completed materials. As a contributor or primary author, wrote and refined FOUR (4) of the above materials for publication in print media and/or online formats. As primary leader or team member, facilitated or assisted in the content development and publishing of completed materials. As a contributor or primary author, wrote and refined THREE (3) of the above materials for publication in print media and/or online formats. As primary leader or team member, assisted in the content development and publishing of completed materials. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).