Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education) Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific IT-related knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, skill and experience installing, configuring, troubleshooting, testing and maintaining hardware and software to IT systems? Answer to this question is required I have collaborated with end users and other specialists to resolve issues associated with installing, configuring, troubleshooting, testing, and maintaining hardware and software to IT systems. I have participated on a team with other specialists, installing, configuring, troubleshooting, testing, and maintaining hardware and software to IT systems. I have independently installed, configured, troubleshooted, tested and maintained various hardware and software to IT systems. I have participated in the development of processes and procedures for the installation, configuration, troubleshooting, testing and maintenance of various hardware and software to IT systems. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training with analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements? I have completed formal education or training in analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed information systems management and maintenance requirements under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have analyzed information systems management and maintenance requirements as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. Analyzing information systems management and maintenance requirements has been a central or major part of my work. I am usually consulted as an expert in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in IT customer service and support? Answer to this question is required I have three or more years of experience providing customer support to end users, including executives and other senior personnel, in multiple locations. I have three or more years of experience servicing multiple end users in multiple locations. I have experience configuring and deploying equipment to end users under the supervision or oversight of a senior IT manager. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of and experience in selecting and using rules, regulations, and procedures for development of lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements? Answer to this question is required I have used my experience to collaborate with end users and other specialists to select and use rules, regulations, and procedures to develop lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have participated on a team with other specialists to select and use rules, regulations, and procedures to develop lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have independently selected rules, regulations, and procedures to participate in the development of lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have independently selected applicable rules, regulations, and procedures to review and analyze lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 6 In the context of web development project management, which stages of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) have you led or been significantly involved in? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Gathering and analyzing the needs and requirements of the project. Creating specifications, blueprints, and architecture designs based on requirements. Translating design documentation into actual websites. Testing the websites for faults or bugs. Deploying the software to the user / production environment. Ensuring the software runs smoothly and stays up-to-date with user needs and technology advancements. Keeping all stakeholders informed and engaged throughout the SDLC. Identifying, assessing, and mitigating potential risks at each stage of the SDLC. None of the Above 7 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge and experience in selecting rules, regulations and procedures related to contracting and providing oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders? Answer to this question is required I have independently selected and used rules, regulations, and procedures related to contracting and used my experience to collaborate with end users and other specialists to provided oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders. I have independently selected and used rules, regulations and procedures related to contracting and provided oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders. I have participated on a team of with other specialists to select and use rules, regulations and procedures related to contracting and provided oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders. I am familiar with rules, regulations, and procedures related to contracting, but I have no direct experience providing oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders and/or task orders. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 8 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of and experience assisting in the study and analysis of one or more areas of IT (security, applications, LAN/WAN, customer support, audio/video, etc.); participating in the identification of potential operational improvements, development and maintenance of enterprise architecture; and performance of a variety of telecommunication control functions? Answer to this question is required I have participated as a team member on a team assisting in the study and analysis of one area of IT (security, applications, LAN/WAN, customer support, audio/video, etc.); participating in the identification of potential operational improvements, development and maintenance of enterprise architecture; and performance of a variety of telecommunication control functions. I have experience independently assisting in the study and analysis of one or more areas of IT (security, applications, LAN/WAN, customer support, audio/video, etc.); participating in the identification of potential operational improvements, development and maintenance of enterprise architecture; and performance of a variety of telecommunication control functions. None of the above 9 Performs annual audits to assure all IT property and equipment are disposed of or otherwise properly accounted for and prepares findings. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing an annual audit to assure all IT property and equipment are disposed of or otherwise properly accounted for and prepared findings. I have completed formal education or training in performing an annual audit to assure all IT property and equipment are disposed of or otherwise properly accounted for and prepared findings but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed an annual audit to assure all IT property and equipment are disposed of or otherwise properly accounted for and prepared findings on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed an annual audit to assure all IT property and equipment are disposed of or otherwise properly accounted for and prepared findings as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed an annual audit to assure all IT property and equipment are disposed of or otherwise properly accounted for and prepared findings as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following statements reflects your experience dealing with property and inventory? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of property and inventory principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have located property inventory for my office. I have completed property inventory forms for my office. I have assisted the Accountable Property Officer in annual property inventory. I have served as a Property Custodian for my department. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.