Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s). Supervising or administering a training program. Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results. Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factors: The applicant must have three or more years of specialized experience as a training/curriculum director (or equivalent) overseeing the design, implementation, and evaluation of the training for a state/county/tribal correctional agency. The applicant must be able to demonstrate significant experience in at least four of following areas: overseeing an agency&rsquo;s training curricula design; overseeing the development of annual training plans for an agency; overseeing the training of senior level executives; developing and implementing policies, procedures, and management controls of an organization&rsquo;s training activities; evaluating work plans, assignments, and performance of an agency&rsquo;s training staff; and/or overseeing the agency&rsquo;s professional development opportunities. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. &nbsp; 3 Do you meet the Selective Factors for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factors for this position and my resume clearly addresses this experience. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The National Programs Advisor is responsible for writing reports, assisting in policy development, developing, and facilitating training, briefings, and presentations to a variety of management level officials of the corrections community. He/she also performs a range of other duties with respect to specific National Institute of Corrections programs and services. To effectively perform the duties associated with this position, he/she must possess strong verbal communication and facilitation skills, as he/she is responsible for coordinating, conducting, and facilitating a variety of meetings, panels, and discussions to achieve results desired by the National Institute of Corrections. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated meetings with upper management officials to develop policy, training programs or resolve a non-routine issue; and/or I have developed effective presentations, to train or inform participants at a local level or specific organization; and/or I have presented/facilitated training classes or presentations in multiple program areas to a diverse audience of line staff, supervisors and upper-level managers. I have facilitated meetings and presented briefings/training/presentations for a specific correctional issue, which were utilized at the national level of an agency/organization; and/or I have developed and facilitated a presentation addressing a correctional issue impacting corrections in the federal, state and local spectrum, and provided recommendations for an improved method or procedure; and/or I have resolved an issue by negotiating with contractors or cooperative agreement employees which satisfied all parties involved. I have provided training to co-workers or peers; and/or I have modified instructional methodologies to accommodate different learning styles and adult learners; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings or attended executive level meetings and presented information. None of the above. 5 The National Programs Advisor will be responsible for writing reports, assisting in policy development, and other documents that are used to maintain and improve the programs and services offered by the National Institute of Corrections. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have written the findings of an Operational Review or comparable audit in the private sector; and/or I have written a memo for all department heads regarding a newly established procedure; and/or I have worked as editor of an internal newsletter. I have reviewed/updated Institution Supplements/local policy; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from Executive Staff within the agency or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have responded to Congressional inquiries regarding constituent concerns. I have developed policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries originating from outside the agency; and/or I have prepared detailed correspondence to others regarding critical needs or concerns; and/or I have wrote an article which was published in a technical publication, journal or newsletter; and/or I have prepared a record of a staff member’s testimony for submission to the court system. None of the above. 6 The National Programs Advisor is responsible for analyzing information from a variety of sources (both correctional and non-correctional), determining appropriate intervention strategies, and making policy and program recommendations based on this analysis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched information and made recommendations to increase program effectiveness in a correctional environment; and/or I have gathered data for evaluating agency practices and submitted proposal to improve or streamline current procedures; and/or I have participated on a taskforce which analyzed problems with inmate management and recommended appropriate procedures for further consideration. I have performed sentence computations; and/or I have determined workforce characteristics through an analysis of statistics; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations with similar facilities. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have analyzed information and reported findings from an operational assessment. None of the above. 7 The National Programs Advisor must possess a comprehensive knowledge of criminal justice and legal issues, along with correctional theories, techniques, and practices in order to analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of current or emerging programs and practices and make recommendations regarding modifications or implementation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted with local federal, state or local corrections professionals in researching, implementing or explaining the impact of and emerging issues in correctional operations; and/or I have participated as a member of a group which significantly contributed to the creation or implementation of policies or programs having nationwide correctional impact; and/or I have provided a suggestion or plan in the form of an Information Paper which significantly improved the operations of an agency/organization. I have provided recommendations for the interpretation and implementation of procedures on a local level as a result of new judicial policy; and/or I have participated as a member of a local workgroup established to determine the impact of policy changes to current operations; and/or I have provided recommendations for program implementation based on evaluation of programs in similar setting. I have prepared documents that analyzed similar programs; and/or I have participated in operational assessments or comparable internal audits of programs; and/or I have analyzed new theories or practices and prepared formal review paper. None of the above. 8 The National Programs Advisor must possess the ability to establish, foster and maintain working relationships with a variety of individuals/entities in order to promote the mission, products and services offered by the National Institute of Corrections. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively negotiate, coordinate, and manage actions with other agencies while providing the information, research, or technical assistance to the corrections community. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in meetings with leaders in corrections to discuss impact of new legislation on current operations and provided suggestions which resulted in mutual agreement/understanding of plan of action required by all parties involved; and/or I have presented a position paper on a streamlined procedure at a national conference; and/or I have served as the organization’s Public Relations/Information officer; and/or I have worked with national union officials to resolve issues; and/or I have served as a resource staff for the organization on correctional activities with officials from the United States Marshals Services and others. I have coordinated facility inspections; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have identified potential performance issues with staff and took corrective action; and/or I have recognized possible inmate conflict and took corrective action before it escalated. I have briefed Executive Staff on inmate case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to upper management/Senior Management as part of an after action review committee; and/or I have served on a taskforce with Executive Staff to develop and modify institutional programs; and/or I have made presentations at the annual strategic planning retreat; and/or I have facilitated meetings with upper management officials to develop policy, training programs or resolve a complex issue; and/or I have participated in the resolution of issues involving departmental staff within the institution or private facility; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed other management staff on issues within and outside of discipline; and/or I have met with union officials to negotiate local working conditions. I have interacted with high-ranking officials from other federal agencies; and/or I have worked in leadership role on community involvement committee; and/or I have chaired a labor negotiation team; and/or I have participated in community-based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have resolved multi-departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Executive Staff, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 9 The National Programs Advisor must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have improved a process to effectively manage, coordinate, and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management/others of the status or implementation of plans for programs/services; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, or budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have authored a response to items identified in a corrective action plan to solve organization/departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed complex projects timely and efficiently; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems; and/or I have worked as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union resident/contractors which enhanced operations/work environment for staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).