Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 10 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you performed or implemented a progressive resistive training program for clients with specific fitness goals Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess current certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR/AED)? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Are you a member of any of the following professional organizations? Please select all that apply. Answer to this question is required ACSM – American College of Sports Medicine NSCA – National Strength and Conditioning Association NATA – National Athletic Trainers’ Association AAAI / ISMA – American Aerobic Association International and International Sports Medicine Association ACE – American Council on Exercise An equivalent organization None of the above 3 Select the following assessment(s) you have conducted when measuring health and physical fitness. Answer to this question is required Health screening Pulse rate and evaluation during rest and exercise Blood pressure and evaluation during rest and exercise Body composition Measures of strength, balance, mobility, flexibility, posture and functional capacity None of the above 4 On which of the following equipment have you provided instructions on their use to health and fitness club members? Answer to this question is required Treadmills Stationary cycles Stair stepping machines Elliptical step machines Rowing machines Weight Machines Free weights Auxiliary strength apparatuses None of the above 5 Do you have experience establishing and maintaining paper and electronic membership accounts? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Do you have experience billing and reconciling membership accounts? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Do you have experience maintaining confidential health care records such as personal such as identifying information on clients? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Please select the exercise activities you have led and /or provided training. Answer to this question is required Yoga Mat or machine Pilates Cardio Kickboxing Zumba Body Sculpt / Core H.I.I.T. Boot Camp Total Body Circuit TRX Strength Training Kettlebells Training None of the above 9 Have you developed educational programs and activities for the following topics? Answer to this question is required General Nutrition Healthy Weight Reduction Stress Management Injury / Illness Prevention and Rehabilitation Physical Fitness Exercising Safely None of the above 10 Please select the exercise activities you have led: Answer to this question is required Yoga Pilates, Mats Pilates, Reformer Strength Programs (machine, circuit, ball) Studio Cycling General nutrition Stress reduction/meditation Healthy weight reduction None of the above 11 Have you developed educational programs and activities for the following topics? Answer to this question is required Physical Fitness Exercising Safely Injury Prevention Stress Management General Nutrition Healthy Weight Reduction None of the above 12 Do you have a significant accumulation of time teaching&nbsp;YOGA and leading W omen's and S eniors programs? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you planned group and individual exercise programs that build cardiovascular endurance, balance, mobility, flexibility, and posture? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Have you developed health education and preventive health service programs (like blood pressure screening, stress screening, etc) in a wellness center/health club environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Have you led group exercise activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you ever developed recreational programs in a wellness center/health club environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.