Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 This series has a basic education requirement that must be met by all applicants. Which of the following best describes how you meet that requirement? Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I held an 1102 series position in the federal government at or equivalent to the same grade as this position on January 1, 2000, and am excepted from this requirement. SF-50 OR EQUIVALENT REQUIRED. I do not meet the basic education requirement as described above. 2 Which of the following describe your experience in procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developd acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have NOT performed these job functions. 3 Which of the following reflects your experience overseeing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (i.e., statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc.). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement None of the above. 4 Which of the following procurement services functions have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have approved contracts/agreements and procurement actions (i.e., requisitions, purchase orders). I have prepared total contract packages for new equipment installations, equipment replacement, and recurring maintenance contracts. I have prepared detailed cost estimates for use in obtaining project funding and bid evaluations. I have completed Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR) responsibilities for maintenance contracts relating to facility and/or custodial operations and maintenance. I have procured a wide variety of specialized instrumentation, components, materials, supplies and services. I have maintained a certificate for service contracting up to $5,000.00. I have applied knowledge of procurement and contracting procedures. I have interpreted and applied procurement regulations to use a Government credit card and generate requisitions to acquire hardware, software, other equipment and services. I have developed specifications and determine costs for procurement of equipment and services. I have established small business participation goals and developed practices to assist my organization in reaching those goals. I have received education or training on procurement policies, procedures and techniques but have not performed it on the job. I have not performed any of the above functions. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving in the capacity as an organization/museum’s Primary Procurement Officer. I have experience coordinating with a Contracting Office to ensure new procedures rules are enforced. I have experience reviewing all approval requests before submission to a Contracting Office. I have experience providing procurement briefing to a finance and administrative support team. I have experience directing administrative staff to attend procurement training and refresher classes. None of the above. 6 Which of the following describes your procurement experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have skill in researching and solving financial discrepancies with international vendors and experience in purchasing services and supplies from international vendors. I have experience and knowledge in signing procurement documents as fiscal manager for a unit, department, or center and skill in researching and solving financial discrepancies and vendor disputes using a variety of problem-solving methods. I have experience and knowledge in using different types of purchasing methods and experience in signing procurement documents as fiscal manager for a unit, department, or center. I have experience and knowledge in using different types of purchasing methods like Purchase Orders (PO’s) i.e., Requisitions, travel orders, PO to Purchase Card, service PO’s, goods PO’s, agreements, etc. None of the above. 7 Which of the following reflects your experience providing administrative tasks in support of an office or organization? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ensured compliance with budget/financial management laws, regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have explained or provided guidance on administrative laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or other customers. I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration I have interpreted and applied regulations dealing with procurement and contracts. I have approved purchase orders/documents ensuring adherence to policies and regulations. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have advised in matters of routine travel authorizations and vouchers using current travel software. I have served as credit card approving official for an office or organization. I have NOT performed these job functions. 8 Which of the following procurement and/or contracting functions have you performed? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have prepared or reviewed Requests for Quotations (RFQs) or Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to obtain vendor proposals and pricing. I have participated in technical evaluation of vendor submissions to determine the most cost effective proposal. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of purchases orders. I have NOT performed these job functions. 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed, on a regular basis, that demonstrates your ability to use PeopleSoft or a similar automated financial system? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Entering small purchase orders Entering requisitions Entering change orders Entering purchases with multiple funding lines Entering receiving reports Tracking payments Adding vendors Investigating "match exceptions" I have not performed any of the above tasks 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in performing federal government procurement using a financial system? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of procurement principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. On a monthly basis I have entered purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. On a daily basis I have entered purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. I have reviewed procurement documents (scope-of works, sole-source justifications, checklists, etc.) for accuracy, completion, and content before processing purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. I have reviewed procurement documents (scope-of-works, sole-source justifications, checklists, etc.) and have advised requestors for accuracy, completion, and content before processing purchase orders and requisitions into a financial system. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing/reviewing financial documents, verifying complete and correct information and financial data, preparing/reviewing documents to deposit revenue, and recording transactions and reconciles financial records?(check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and reviewed financial documents. I have verified complete and correct information and financial data. I have prepared and reviewed documents to deposit revenue. I have recorded transactions. I have reconciled financial records. None of the above. 12 Which of the following types of information and training materials do you have experience organizing? Answer to this question is required Files and references for personal use Files and references for use by immediate co-workers or others with in-depth knowledge of the topic Tables and charts for use by coworkers with basic knowledge of a topic "Cheat sheet" references for use by coworkers with in-depth knowledge of a topic Procedural instructions for co-workers with basic knowledge of a topic Detailed procedural instructions for co-workers with very little knowledge of a topic Plain-english translations of law and regulation FAQ's (Frequently Asked Questions) Wiki or web pages with links to related topics None of the above 13 Which of the following describes your experience communicating orally on a regular basis to explain procurement-related concepts? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have trained and advised organizational staff on procurement responsibilities, including but not limited to writing proper methods, documentation, and financial coding. I have provided procedural written guidance on procurement, basic contract and purchase card methods. I have resolved issues and disputes in writing between cardholders, billing officials, vendors and the financial institutions issuing the purchase cards. I have provided written guidance to customers and contractors in the interpretation and application of procurement regulations, policies, and procedures. Resolves problems and keeps customers abreast of new policies and procedures in writing. None of the above 14 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate clearly and concisely? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.