Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Do you have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position?&nbsp; This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 3 Identify the types of civil engineering projects with which you have had experience. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Construction, renovation, maintenance or repair of structures Construction, renovation, or upgrade to roads Construction, renovation, or upgrade to water systems Construction, renovation, or upgrade to power distribution systems (480v and 4160v) Construction, maintenance, repair and or upgrade of infrastructure at a remote site I have no experience with civil engineering projects 4 Which of the following describes your experience with phases of construction of a building equivalent in size to a museum? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience with construction codes and methods. I have experience with reading architectural or engineering drawings and specifications. I have experience with inspecting renovation and construction projects. None of the above. 5 Identify your highest level of experience in developing cost estimates for facility maintenance and repair projects or service contracts and/or construction projects. Answer to this question is required I independently developed cost estimates for maintenance repairs, service contracts and/or construction projects. I developed cost estimates for maintenance repairs, service contracts and/or construction projects with supervision. I have no experience in developing estimates for maintenance repairs, service contracts and/or construction projects. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing and executing Statements of Work (SOWs), Requests for Proposals (RFPs) or Requests for Quotations (RFQs)? Answer to this question is required I have not had training or experience performing this task. I have had training on how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 7 Which of the following best describe your experience preparing statements of work, estimates of level of effort of design services, evaluate proposals for design services and participate in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services Answer to this question is required I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in preparing statements of work and estimates or participated in technical discussions. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussion to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services on the job under the close supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in preparing statements of work and design services estimates and participating in technical discussions, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared statements of work and design services estimates and participated in technical discussions to determine fair and reasonable level of effort for design services as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task . 8 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing and delivering presentations about building design projects? (Select the one that is most accurate) Answer to this question is required I have prepared and delivered presentations at the senior management level designed to achieve decisions on significant issues related to building design. I have prepared and delivered informational presentations to working groups, supervisory committees, peers, and contracted building design professionals. I have given informal briefings such as status reports to process stakeholders and colleagues regarding building design. I have briefed others (co-workers, superiors, etc.) on the work that I am performing. I have not done any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience leading meetings to discuss the scope of building requirements and projects? Answer to this question is required I have led meetings of my peers and/or contracted design professionals. I have organized and supported briefings to process stakeholders and colleagues related to requirement solutions, prioritization and long range funding. I have briefed others (co-workers, superiors, etc.) on the work that I am performing. I do not have experience leading meetings about the scope of building projects. 11 Which of the following leadership functions have you successfully (in projects) led or was assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Setting project goals, deadlines, and expectations. Planning work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. Coaching and mentoring staff to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience in both leading and participating in work teams? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led large work team or group on managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have led a work team dealing with issues of similar interest. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. I have worked on a team or project with others under some constraint such a short deadline. None of the above. 13 Which of the following most accurately reflects your highest level of experience that demonstrates your potential to lead a team or participate in the management of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have served as a project leader, established and communicated project objectives, assigned work to others, monitored the progress of the assignments, provided regular reports on progress to my managers, provided guidance and instruction as needed to members of the group, evaluated and/or rewarded the contributions of the individual team members, and assured that the project objectives were successfully met. I have held a lead/senior position or positions with formal responsibility for providing technical guidance and instructions on policy, procedures, regulations, or complex assignments to others in the organization. I have held a position or positions with supervisory responsibilities for administrative, technical, and trade workers which included developing goals, milestones, and work plans; balancing and distributing employees' workload, evaluating job performance, mediating or negotiating resolutions to employee problems and conflicts, recommending employees for recognition, promotion, and developmental training; and recommending or hiring new employees. I have not held a senior, lead, or supervisory position. I independently perform the duties and responsibilities of my position, determine the course of action to take, plan and carry out my assignments, consult with others as necessary, and resolve any conflicts. I keep my supervisor advised of progress, any controversial conflicts or issues, and/or matters that may affect policy or have far-reaching implications. I have not held a senior, lead, or supervisory position. I perform the duties and responsibilities of my position with general directions for common assignments but require more specific direction and guidance from higher level specialists or supervisors for more complex or politically sensitive assignments. 14 What best describes your ability to communicate complex technical and programmatic information? Answer to this question is required Delivered briefings to executive audiences; authored technical papers Regularly report to leadership on project or technical progress Occasional presenter or contributor to group discussions Limited communication experience 15 Which of the following types of reviews do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cross-disciplinary quality control and coordination review of construction drawings and specifications for design projects with complex architecture and engineering scope Review of construction drawings and specifications for codes and standards compliance and technical correctness Constructability review of construction drawings and specifications None of the above 16 What best describes your ability and experience generating project plans, reports and other management documentation? Answer to this question is required None I have provided input to project plans and reports. I have independently generated project plans and management documentation, but on an infrequent basis It was an essential part of my work duties to generate comprehensive project plans, reports, and other management documentation. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.