Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Chief of the Fire Protection Section contacts include; Executive Staff (Central Office, Regional, and Institution), Federal Fire Protection officials, principal fire protection officials of other agencies, labor representatives, elected officials, attorneys, consultants, vendors, and others on a national, state, municipal and county level. Contacts are necessary for program justification, policy development, daily operation of the fire protection program, training, or settling highly significant and controversial fire protection issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral brief on a fire issue for Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Executive Staff; and/or I have persuaded Executive Staff to approve national changes in the fire protection program; and/or I have served as a negotiator with agency/organization union officials on national level bargaining issues/concerns; and/or I have chaired workgroups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting. I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have conducted training for Bureau audience at Management and Specialty Training Center (MSTC) or for professional organizations; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/top management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to management regarding fire protection issues. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have represented the agency at a community hearing regarding a proposal to build a correctional institution in the area; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel; and/or I have served in a leadership role on a community involvement committee; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote the agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. None of the above. 3 The Chief of the Fire Protection Section prepares a variety of reports, correspondence, articles for external publication, briefings for national level groups, etc. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which include Department of Justice (DOJ) officials, other federal agency executives, executives/members of national professional organizations, state and local safety administrators, line staff and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared budget request packages; and/or I have written strategic plans; and/or I have written emergency/contingency plans; and/or I have prepared a briefing in response to program review/comparable external audit evaluators concerning program procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper justifying a decision made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed standard operating procedures/manual/procedural safety guide explaining laws, regulations, etc., in laymen terms. I have prepared an article which was published in a management, research or professional national publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared written briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared an Environmental and Safety Compliance Branch status briefing for Executive Staff; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations memorandums; and/or I have revised or rewritten operational safety procedures on specific job tasks. None of the above. 4 The Chief of the Fire Protection Section is responsible for establishing, formulating, executing, and enforcing national policy, programs and priorities to achieve compliance with the intent of fire protection legislation and related standards, orders, rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals. I have analyzed and evaluated current operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work productivity of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed program review/operational reviews and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinates and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have collected information/data and made recommendations to improve fire protection initiatives; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating Bureau of Prisons (BOP) practices that impacted fire protection programs; and/or I have chaired a task force which analyzed problems within a specific fire protection related field and recommended appropriate policy changes or revisions; and/or I have developed national strategic plans; and/or I have served as a troubleshooter in dealing with a national fire protection issue; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations are maintained. None of the above. 5 The Chief of the Fire Protection Section is responsible for the development of an effective comprehensive plan for fire protection consistent with the mission of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP). He/she will serve as a management official. He/she will oversee a program, policy and procedure as well as assist in planning, directing, coordinating, and evaluating policy and procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led/chaired a project/task force which involved coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization/departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. I have directed or coordinated an organization’s financial/budget activities to fund operations/increase efficiency; and/or I have identified and incorporated key personnel needed to ensure the timely and efficient accomplishment of projects; and/or I have implemented corrective action plans to solve organizational/departmental problems. None of the above. 6 The Chief of the Fire Protection Section must have a thorough knowledge of all fire protection issues, to include comprehensive knowledge of the various procedures, concepts and practices in order to develop and implement fire protection programs in compliance with applicable codes, standards, and policies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted system-wide training programs to address specific deficiencies in the fire protection program; and/or I have received outside certification as a fire safety or environmental health inspector; and/or I have researched specific safety material and provided an analysis of policy revisions recommended; and/or I have created a new fire protection related training program to be used at the system-wide level. I have conducted training classes to a local audience on specific fire protection issues; and/or I have conducted fire protection inspections at a local level to identify specific deficiencies and recommended corrective actions to improve working conditions; and/or I have provided advice on fire protection related issues to local management officials; and/or I have worked closely with local management officials on improving workplace fire protection through constant communications with department head employees. I have provided risk assessment evaluations on fire protection; and/or I have received outside certification in the field of fire protection; and/or I have researched specific fire protection material and provided an analysis of policy revisions recommended. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).