Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 All applicants for engineering positions must meet the Basic Requirements. Carefully read the following statements A through G which states the various ways to meet the basic eligibility requirements for all engineering positions: Degree: Professional Engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. Degree: Professional Engineering including differential & integral calculus & courses (more advanced than 1st yr. physics & chemistry) in 5 of the following areas: statics, dynamics; strength of materials; fluid mechanics, hydraulics; thermodynamics; electrical fields & circuits; nature & properties of material (relating to particle & aggregate structure to properties) & any other comparable area of engineering science or physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. College level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering, evidenced by current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. College level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering, evidenced by successfully passing the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination. College level education, training and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical & mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences & techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering, evidenced by successfully passing the written test administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, D.C., Guam or Puerto Rico. College level education, training and/or technical experience -- evidenced by successful completion of at least 60 semester hrs. of courses in the physical, mathematical, & engineering sciences & in engineering that included the courses specified in Option B above. Courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum. College level education, training & or technical experience evidenced by successful completion of a curriculum leading a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), AND at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision & guidance. 1 In order to meet the basic requirements for the Engineer job series, applicants must meet one of the criteria in A through G above. Please select the choice that best describes how you meet the basic requirements. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in A above. I meet the requirements set forth in B above. I meet the requirements set forth in C above. I meet the requirements set forth in D above. I meet the requirements set forth in E above. I meet the requirements set forth in F above. I meet the requirements set forth in G above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Specialized experience is defined as experience applying advanced structural engineering principles to the evaluation, design, and retrofit of large, complex or mission critical facilities, including, but not limited to providing technical leadership on issues related to: structural performance, seismic safety, blast resistance, progressive collapse mitigation, and/or physical security. Such experience includes interpreting and implementing engineering standards and facility security criteria, conducting structural and seismic risk assessments, reviewing structural designs for new construction or major modernization projects, and advising project teams and/or government officials on mitigation strategies for structural, seismic and/or security-related risks. 2 Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level as defined above? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).