Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-15 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience in setting priorities to meet your professional responsibilities? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I normally resolve the conflicts independently. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I adjust my use of time to meet changes in priorities and the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In resolving conflicts, I involve the team leader or supervisor. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I assist my team or staff in determining how best to use their time and reprioritize their work as situations warrant. None of the above 2 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Government Accountability Office (GAO) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) National Security Council / National Security Staff Other government agencies U.S. Delegations Bi-lateral Organizations Multi-lateral Organizations Host country governments None of the above 3 Exercised initiative and independent judgment in the prioritization of goals, the allocation of resources to meet those goals, and in the supervision of organizational progress towards those goals: Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 4 With which of the following legislation and/or regulations are you familiar with? Answer to this question is required Domestic marine and coastal laws International marine and coastal laws United Nations Law of the Sea Convention United Nations World Ocean Assessment Marine Mammal Protection Act None of the above 5 Which of the following BEST describes your level of experience in communicating persuasively on subject matter regarding marine science and ocean policy? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education persuading individuals on subject matter regarding marine science and ocean policy. I have education or training in persuading individuals on subject matter regarding marine science and ocean policy. I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal on subject matter regarding marine science and ocean policy. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make decision of considerable importance to the organization's mission on subject matter regarding marine science and ocean policy. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action on subject matter regarding marine science and ocean policy. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge and experience in international ocean science policy and technology programs that provide analysis on scientific and technical issues as they relate to the ocean? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your skill in understanding and assessing the political, legal, and institutional environment in which to make decisions and present policy options on ocean science issues? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your professional experience in the area of international ocean law and policy? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge and experience in the development and coordination of U.S. foreign policy with respect to marine science research, or other related ocean activities? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have education or training in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 From the following list of topics, please identify those areas relative to U.S. foreign policy and/or national security in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Arms Control Human Rights Area Studies International Law Public Diplomacy Democratization and elections Trade, Transportation, Aviation Non-proliferation Educational and/or cultural exchanges Political-Military Affairs International Organizations Environment, Science and Technology Marine Environment and Fisheries Marine Sciences and Technology Ocean Sciences and Law of the Sea Energy Consular Homeland Security Labor Intelligence Global Issues Economics and/or International Development Verification of, and compliance with, international agreements / commitments / regimes International crimes and drugs Counter-terrorism Civilian Policing and Rule of Law Anti-corruption Commercial Advocacy / Business promotion International Business / Finance Banking compliance procedures Legal analysis U.S. economic sanctions United Nations sanctions None of the above 11 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in providing guidance for multilateral negotiations? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or education in providing guidance for multilateral negotiations. I have education or training in providing guidance for multilateral negotiations, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have provided guidance for multilateral negotiations under the close supervision from a supervisor or more senior official. I have routinely and independently provided guidance for multilateral negotiations, usually without review by a supervisor or senior official. I am highly skilled in providing guidance for multilateral negotiations. I have trained or overseen others in this activity or been consulted as an expert for assistance. 12 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 13 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in representing a division or organization at meetings, conferences, and events. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. 14 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in coordinating interagency policy or policy documents. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents, having trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 15 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, or briefing materials with interagency input. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me performing this task. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input. I have trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.