Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide liaison and coordination activities. ** Provided liaison and coordination activities in support of organizational operations, executive leadership, programs, and initiatives. In doing so: (1) consulted with library staff, congressional staff, management officials, and external sources; (2) coordinated studies, investigations, and special projects; (3) facilitated communication among leadership and stakeholders; (4) served as a liaison among senior leaders, federal agencies, and external organizations; (5) built and maintained professional relationships with stakeholders; and (6) coordinated special projects and executive initiatives. Answer to this question is required Served as a principal liaison to various stakeholders inside and outside an organization and established relationships with others including senior management to coordinate and share resources and information. This includes providing liaison and coordination activities for executive leadership within a large public or private sector organization and, in so doing, exercised ALL SIX (6) of the activities listed above. Served as a principal liaison and provided liaison and coordination activities for executive leadership within a public or private sector organization, in so doing, exercised FIVE (5) or FOUR (4) of the activities listed above. Served as a principal liaison and provided liaison and coordination activities for executive leadership within a public or private sector organization, in so doing, exercised THREE (3) or TWO (2) of the activities listed above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of Administrative Operations Management ** Applied knowledge of administrative operational management principles, practices &amp; procedures to direct &amp; oversee executive office operations &amp; administrative support activities. This includes 1) overseeing executive appointments, correspondence, travel, conference activities, scheduling &amp; communications 2) ensuring compliance with office procedures, records management requirements &amp; confidentiality standards 3) maintaining workflow efficiency &amp; operational effectiveness across administrative functions 4) resolving complex administrative &amp; operational issues 5) managing information flow to &amp; from executive leadership &amp; ensuring follow-up actions &amp; communications are completed in a timely manner 6) advising staff regarding office policies &amp; procedures 7) providing authoritative guidance on administrative matters &amp; 8) ensuring administrative operations align with organizational priorities, mission requirements &amp; leadership expectations Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of administrative operational management support within a large public or private sector organization and, in so doing, exercised ALL of the activities listed above. Applied expert knowledge of administrative operational management support within a large public or private sector organization and, in so doing, exercised SEVEN (7) or SIX (6) of the activities listed above. Applied knowledge of administrative operational management support within a public or private sector organization and, in so doing, exercised FIVE (5) or FOUR (4) of the activities listed above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to supervise a workforce of excellence. ** Supervised a workforce of excellence, in doing so, performed these administrative functions: (1) directly supervised front-office administrative personnel; 2) established priorities and performance standards, guidelines, &amp; expectations; (3) directed daily operations, assigned work, &amp; evaluated performance &amp; outcomes; (4) provided coaching, mentoring, &amp; informal/formal feedback; (5) resolved employee concerns, complaints, &amp; grievances promptly; (6) identified employee development and training needs;7) participated in recruitment, onboarding, and orientation activities; 8) advised &amp; counseled staff on work-related &amp; administrative matters; (9) exercised authority to initiate &amp; enforce disciplinary actions; (10) oversaw processes to ensure efficiency, compliance, &amp; effectiveness; and (11) communicated organizational goals, priorities, &amp; expectations to align with mission objectives. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Supervised, and managed a diverse multi-disciplinary professional and administrative staff within the public or private sector and in so doing, exercised ALL of the activities listed above. Supervised, and managed a diverse multi-disciplinary professional and administrative staff within the public or private sector and in so doing, exercised TEN (10) or NINE (9) of the activities listed above. Supervised, and managed a diverse multi-disciplinary professional and administrative staff within the public or private sector and in so doing, exercised EIGHT (8) or SEVEN (7) of the activities listed above. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to exercise judgment and discretion. ** Addressed requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers where the agency or organization&rsquo;s mission required judgment, diplomacy, and discretion. Maintained effective interactions with others; used tact and sensitivity when handling confidential information; and solved problems and resolved issues or complaints by considering the likely consequences or implications of actions and adhering to agency or organizational standards even in ambiguous or controversial situations. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility in a fast-paced, highly complex, high-profile agency or organization whose clientele included decision-makers at the highest levels of the private or public sector (e.g., Members of Congress, agency heads, donors, International officials, other stakeholder etc.,), was regularly required to use judgment and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for fully understanding, articulating, and upholding agency standards and policies under stressful working conditions and responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective, diplomatic interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. In a moderately-paced, complex agency or organization whose clientele included staff representing national decision-makers in the public or private sector (e.g., executive directors, staff directors of congressional committees, presidents of professional or trade associations), was regularly required to use and tact, diplomacy, and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for understanding and upholding agency standards and policies and responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. In a complex agency or organization, was regularly required to use diplomacy and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for understanding and applying agency standards and policies while responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).