Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of communication and public affairs principles, methods, and techniques.** Used knowledge of communication and public affairs principles, methods, and techniques to create and implement outreach efforts and strategies. Answer to this question is required Drew upon extensive knowledge of writing, editing, and communications strategies related to public affairs programs. Served as an advisor to management on communications policies and protocol and as a consultant on the planning, development and execution of complex, controversial, and/or sensitive communications projects and strategies, including social media strategies. Drew upon knowledge of writing, editing and communication strategies related to public affairs programs. Served as an advisor to management on communication policies and protocol and as a consultant on the planning, development and execution of communication projects and strategies, including social media strategies. Drew upon knowledge of writing, editing and communication strategies related to public affairs programs. Responsible for planning and carrying out projects and assignments. Completed work is reviewed in terms of satisfying expected results and conformance to organization/agency policy. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote a variety of clear, factual, analytical, understandable and persuasive documents related to the position such as:&nbsp; 1) briefings, 2) planning documents, 3) news releases, 4) reports, 5) background statements, 6) press releases, 7) brochures, 8) articles, and 9) formal and informal correspondence. Answer to this question is required As the principal author, routinely wrote AT LEAST SEVEN of the above documents. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. As the principal author, routinely wrote FIVE or SIX of the above documents. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. As the principal author, routinely wrote FOUR of the above documents. Composed, reviewed and edited these documents. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to develop and maintain relationships, interact collaboratively, and convey information through briefings, consultations, and other presentations.** Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of individuals, interacted collaboratively, and served as a liaison to accomplish the position&rsquo;s duties. Answer to this question is required Experience developing and maintaining relationships and networks beneficial to the successful performance of assignments. This included collaborating with persons in the private and public sectors, including the public, news media and others with recognized professional standing on the issues. Led and/or participated in discussions, briefings, consultations and presentations on issues related to communications strategies and initiatives, and worked with subject matter experts within the organization to gather and disseminate information. Experience developing and maintaining relationships and networks beneficial to the successful performance of assignments. This included collaborating with persons in the private and public sectors, including the public, news media and others with recognized professional standing on the issues. Participated in discussions, briefings, consultations and/or presentations on issues related to communications strategies and initiatives and worked with subject matter experts to gather and disseminate information. Experience developing and maintaining relationships and networks beneficial to the successful performance of assignments. This included collaborating with persons in the private and/or public sectors, including the public, news media and others on the issues. Participated in discussions, briefings, consultations and/or presentations related to communication strategies and initiatives. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to research, analyze, evaluate, and make recommendations to improve program effectiveness. When creating or evaluating a communications plan or effort, utilized various sources, including on-line tools, to analyze issues and problems, to conduct research and recommend action(s), and to solve problems affecting program effectiveness. Answer to this question is required Conducted research on the needs of the public and an organization/agency and used analytical skills while working in collaboration with management to develop a public affairs program with targeted outreach content. Conducted research on the needs of the public and an organization/agency and used analytical skills while working in collaboration with management to develop portions of a public affairs program with targeted outreach content. Conducted research on public affairs matters for an organization/agency and used analytical skills to develop a comprehensive public affairs program with targeted outreach content. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to utilize computer technology/software applications. Utilized computer technology and software applications to produce a variety of documents, reports, and webpages promoting public affairs for an organization. Answer to this question is required Produced comprehensive communications materials to promote an organization, including press releases, blog posts, fact sheets, pitch notes, social media feature articles and other materials utilizing advanced computer technology and software applications. Produced a variety of communications materials to promote an organization such as press releases, blog posts, fact sheets, pitch notes, social media feature articles and other materials utilizing advanced computer technology and software applications. Produced communication materials to promote an organization such as press releases, blog posts, fact sheets, pitch notes, social media feature articles and other materials utilizing computer technology and software applications. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).