Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 From the following list, please select the activities you have performed related to the administration of programs or the management of projects. Answer to this question is required Implemented findings and conclusions resulting from a compliance review or an investigation and monitored progress. Reviewed open source or classified intelligence reports and made summary recommendations on trends and diversion possibilities. Monitored team efforts or workflow to insure program success, responding with shifts in workload and/or adjustments to operational procedures. Served as focal point or team lead on unique or sensitive compliance or enforcement matters. Generated management reports and tracking of performance measures. Trained and developed new or junior employees. None of the above. 3 Choose the answer that most accurately describes your experience conducting, planning, or supervising criminal investigations. Answer to this question is required I have not conducted, planned, or supervised criminal investigations. I have been trained to conduct investigations but have not yet done this at work. I have planned and conducted criminal investigations. I have supervised criminal investigators conducting these investigations. I have supervised units or teams of criminal investigators conducting investigations on a regional scale. I have managed a program on a regional or national scale, prioritizing and focusing on criminal investigations. 4 Select the choices that describe investigative techniques which you have used in performing work assignments: Answer to this question is required Following leads Researching records Preparing reports Contacting or interviewing to obtain information Searching for physical or documentary evidence or clues Using evidence to substantiate findings or conclusions Examining records to detect links in a chain of evidence or information None of the above 5 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 6 Select the response that most accurately describes your level of knowledge in basic fact finding and investigative techniques: Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of or experience in this subject area. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to specific guidelines, procedures or protocols. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to specific guidelines, procedures or protocols. In addition, I have analyzed, probed for deeper insight or used this evidence in problem solving efforts. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings according to general guidelines, procedures or protocols. In addition, I have analyzed, probed for deeper insight or used this evidence to solve problems or to develop new techniques, methods or procedures. I have gathered evidence, researched topics, or conducted interviews and organized findings in complex situations requiring deviation from standard protocols, and that required the development of alternative approaches. In addition, I have independently evaluated programs, policies or procedures and made recommendations for improvement. 7 Select the actions you have taken or accomplishments that reflect your capabilities in analysis or problem solving: Answer to this question is required Applied a formal and disciplined approach to research and investigation assignments. Promoted a greater degree of evidenced based decision making in team projects. Analyzed similar and divergent information in order to reach a summary conclusion. Took action to probe more deeply and verify apparent contradictory information in order to ensure accurate conclusions. Produced final products that were factually based, detailed and accurate. Recognized by colleagues or supervisors colleagues for producing final products that exhibit precision, accuracy, discipline, internal consistency and integrity. None of the above. 8 Choose all examples that match your experience preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings for presentation to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 9 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups Universities None of the above 10 Which of the following BEST reflects your experience in successfully and independently completing assignments in a timely manner and under tight deadlines? Answer to this question is required My work assignments are most generally completed within assigned schedules and deadlines. I have independently managed multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled with adjusting my time to meet changes in priorities and meet the requirements of the new or unexpected work. I independently meet deadlines and adjust priorities with management or peers. I have assisted others to determine how best to use their time and how to reprioritize their work when situations warrant. None of the above. 11 With which of the following entities outside of your work organization have you developed successful working relationships? Answer to this question is required Agency employees Agency management officials Other Federal law enforcement agencies Other state and local law enforcement agencies Prosecutors General public None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.