Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required Experience that demonstrated the ability to plan and coordinate the use of land, water, and related resources for recreation and conservation purposes. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: • Ability to deal with people of differing backgrounds and behavioral patterns. • Analysis and evaluation of outdoor recreation interests, habits, and needs of diversified groups, and the means for meeting those needs. • Evaluation of land or water areas for their recreation and related potential use, such as wildlife reserve. • Preparation or review of plans and programs for natural resource utilization and recreation area development. • Solution of administrative, intergovernmental, socioeconomic, and other problems involved in providing adequate recreation opportunities while preserving, restoring, and enhancing the quality of the outdoor environment. I do not have the specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above. Specialized experience is defined as experience serving as a team lead preparing an Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment that assesses the effects of a proposed hydropower project (new or existing) on environmental resources. 2 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which of the following do you have experience interpreting and administering? Answer to this question is required Wild & Scenic Rivers Act Wilderness Act Coastal Zone Management Act Federal Power Act I do not have this experience 4 Which of the following do you have experience evaluating the effects of hydropower projects? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Instream flows Reservoir fluctuation on water-based recreation Land-based recreation Shoreline management Aesthetic resources I do not have this experience 5 Which of the following do you have experience making recommendations for hydropower projects? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Shoreline Management Aesthetic Resources Land-Based Recreation Water-Based Recreation I do not have this experience 6 Which activities have you performed related to hydropower licensing issues?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have had discussions with colleagues on hydropower licensing issues. I have had discussions with my supervisor on hydropower licensing issues. I have made recommendations to my supervisor on hydropower licensing issues. I have made recommendations to upper management on hydropower licensing issues. I do not have this experience. 7 To which of the following groups have you presented technical information?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Federal, state, or local agency staff Commissioners and/or Commissioner’s Assistants Senior management Industry or agency groups Community groups and or non-governmental organizations None of the above 8 Select the responses which describe your experience having conversations with others.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for my colleagues. I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for my supervisor. I have experience distilling complicated technical information in a concise manner for a non-technical audience. I have experience having conversations with colleagues about their work products. I have experience having conversations with my supervisor about my work products. I do not have this experience. 9 Which of the following documents have you written?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Commission Notices Delegated Orders Environmental Documents Requests for Information Guidance documents ILP Study Plan Determinations None of the above 10 Which statements describe the type of writing experience you have?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Writing to convey or explain a complicated issue. Writing to influence the opinion or action of others. Writing to recommend a solution to a problem with supporting documentation and evidence. Writing to summarize the results of a study. Writing to explain how a recommended outcome meets or does not meet regulatory requirements. I do not have experience writing for any of the above purposes. 11 Which actions have you performed when completing a written document?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Submitted a document that I drafted for review Added additional information to a document that someone else wrote Edited someone else’s written document for clarity, interpretation, and tone Edited someone else’s written document for spelling, grammar, and thought organization Reviewed someone else’s written document for fact and / or data accuracy Presenting and justifying / defending a technical position in a work environment None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, SF-50, ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 2 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in the competitive service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).