Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Intelligence Operations Officer establishes and maintains liaison with various law enforcement entities to gain and share intelligence concerning security threat groups. He/she briefs institution management and other high level officials regarding security threat group issues and advise management regarding prevention and interdiction of security threat group activity. He/she provides expert witness testimony in court and instruction to law enforcement staff in various settings to include preparing mock disturbances for training purposes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have attended briefings with staff and/or local law enforcement officials concerning intelligence gathered on gangs or disruptive groups; and/or I have conducted weekly briefings with supervisor to keep him/her abreast of ongoing investigations; and/or I have gathered intelligence and shared it with staff to prevent possible disturbances; and/or I have conducted employment interviews on applicants. I have established mutual work relationships with counterparts outside the agency; and/or I have developed ongoing communication with Immigration and Customs Enforcement staff regarding inmate cases; and/or I have actively participated in meetings of an institution committee as the representative from the department; and/or I have interviewed staff and inmates while conducting and investigation; and/or I have provided advice/guidance to executive staff during a crisis situation; and/or I have provided recommendations to senior level management as part of an after action review committee. I have provided expert assistance to other agencies, such as the FBI, regarding a former inmate’s activities during incarceration; and/or I have presented formal briefings to high level officials; and/or I have actively participated in meetings of a federal executive board committee as a representative of the institution; and/or I have provided briefings and recommendations to executive staff regarding ongoing investigations; and/or I have advised the U.S. Attorney’s Office regarding activity of prison gangs for a pending trial. None of the above. 5 The Intelligence Operations Officer documents information gathered from various sources for inclusion into databases and subsequent dissemination to management and other users. He/she develops and issues threat and risk assessments and other analytical reports, as well as advisories, intelligence briefs, and security s. He/she also develops proposals for strategies, policies and procedures to control security threat group activity. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written strategic plans for a department; and/or I have developed written lesson plans for a training course; and/or I have written a detailed memo recommending a change in procedure; and/or I have written a justification to support a request for additional resources; and/or I have developed interrogatories for an investigation; and/or I have written intelligence summaries for the senior level management. I have written investigative reports for complex investigations; and/or I have written a legal brief; and/or I have written inmate progress reports for the court or parole board; and/or I have written a new institution supplement describing technical procedures; and/or I have written strategic plans for a Task Force or Workgroup; and/or I have written the agency’s response for a third party hearing; and/or I have written an article for the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Fact Sheet regarding gang activity in prisons. I have prepared written comments on a draft policy; and/or I have compiled information gathered from different sources into a report for the executive staff; and/or I have prepared reports for agency staff, such as statistical material for decision and informational purposes; and/or I have written performance appraisals on subordinates. None of the above. 6 The Intelligence Operations Officer manages and conducts intelligence activities which must comply with agency and institution policy and procedural guidance, Department of Justice and National Security Administration directives, and federal regulations and statutes. He/she researches, interprets and applies governing rules/policies/guidelines in developing intelligence strategies and proposing management actions for controlling Security Threat Group activity. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined action steps by researching policy and regulations; and/or I have identified requirements applicable to unusual investigations; and/or I have researched regulations to identify best corrective action for resolution of procedural error; and/or I have developed a pre-validation process to identify possible gang members entering the institution; and/or I have created a database to track trends of disruptive groups; and/or I have developed debriefing strategies for an inmate wishing to drop out of a gang/disruptive group. I have inspected records and practices to assess policy compliance; and/or I have implemented new procedures specified in revised policy; and/or I have collected intelligence information from a variety of open sources such as the news media or internet and organized it into a briefing paper for the executive staff; and/or I have validated an inmate as a member of a disruptive group; and/or I have referred to policy or post orders and handled a potentially disruptive situation. I have referred to policy and determined actions required based on case assessment; and/or I have validated an inmate as a gang member; and/or I have developed a threat assessment on a possible new prison gang; and/or I have developed a perpetual audit system to ensure compliance with policy. None of the above. 7 Intelligence Operations Officer evaluates and analyzes a wide variety of intelligence in assessing threat and risk associated with Security Threat Group membership and activity and in determining subsequent intelligence gathering actions. He/she develops and recommends agency strategies for controlling threat and risk. He/she must sometimes exercise significant judgement regarding immediate actions to be taken in support of high priority intelligence/investigative needs of the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined appropriate penalty for routine discipline cases; and/or I have evaluated results of an investigation and drew conclusions about an inmate’s misconduct; and/or I have recommended relocation of an inmate’s supervision after verifying available community resources and considering alternatives. I have approved an inmate’s job change request after considering relevant information; and/or I have denied a subordinate’s request for annual leave after exploring alternatives for coverage; and/or I have recommended approval of a request after comparing the situation to policy requirements. I have analyzed relevant information from various sources to determine whether an inmate should remain in protective custody; and/or I have evaluated veracity of confidential information about an anticipated disruptive event and determined appropriate management action; and/or I have conducted an in-depth study of the institution’s system of inmate accountability and made recommendations which were implemented. None of the above. 8 Intelligence Operations Officer develops and conducts training programs regarding Security Threat Group identification, monitoring, and control. Instruction is provided through various training programs. Those trained include all levels of staff both within the BOP and from other law enforcement agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and presented training on the identification of gangs and their characteristics for an audience with diverse backgrounds; and/or I have gathered and organized intelligence products resulting from team liaison with other agencies; and/or I have coordinated and held special intelligence consortiums with local law enforcement initiatives; and/or I have conducted training for new Special Investigative Supervisors/Special Investigative Agents at the national level. I have provided instruction/presentations to staff during Annual Refresher Training or equivalent; and/or I have developed a lesson plan which required a number of charts, tables and text using Microsoft Word or other computer presentation software; and/or I have developed a lesson plan using a variety of resources. I have provided instruction to new employees during Introduction to Correctional Techniques; and/or I have presented to a small group using pre-approved lesson plans; and/or I have facilitated a small group discussion regarding gang identifiers such as tattoos, hand signs and membership. None of the above. 9 Intelligence Operations Officer must gather and disseminate information relating to management decisions in a way which encourages all employees to perform at the highest level possible while facilitating institutional operations. He/she is charged with the responsibility of persuading and motivating the staff and inmate population in order to maintain operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided input to corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have interpreted and communicated work procedures and organizational policies to others; and/or I have coordinated, monitored and tracked individual workload to ensure completion of projects/assignments in a timely manner; and/or I have assisted in the development of program plans; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures. I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have developed corrective action plans to solve organization or departmental problems; and/or I have established departmental responsibilities and coordinated functions among departments and sites; and/or I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked assignments for completion; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievances before it escalated to higher level for action. I have determined how funds would be spent to complete work requirements and accounted for expenditures; and/or I have recommended an improved process to effectively manage, coordinate and initiate the flow of required information within an office environment; and/or I have prepared activity reports to inform management or others of the status and implementation plans of programs and services; and/or I have worked as a career development advisor; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance job knowledge of others; and/or I have worked on a project with others outside of an established workgroup to achieve a unit/agency objective. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).