Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: NA No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a spouse or domestic partner (as defined in 3 FAM 1612) of a direct-hire (not contract) government employee of any federal agency who is currently or will be &nbsp;serving in a full-time permanent position abroad under Chief of Mission Authority at a U.S. mission, or at an office of the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you listed on the travel orders or an approved form OF-126 (FS Residence and Dependency Report (or other agency equivalent)) of a sponsoring employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2.1 You answered no that you are not listed on the travel orders or an approved OF-126 (FS Residence and Dependency Report (or other agency equivalent)) of a sponsoring employee. Do you have a letter from your sponsoring employee's executive office stating that you are their spouse or domestic partner, that the sponsoring employee is expected to serve at an overseas post under Chief of Mission authority including an office of the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) within the next 12 months, and that you will accompany the sponsoring employee? Yes No 3 Full name of your sponsoring employee: (First, Middle, Last). Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Agency of your sponsoring employee (select one): Answer to this question is required Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Department of Agriculture/Foreign Agriculture Service (DOA/FAS) Department of Commerce/Foreign Commercial Service (DOC/FCS) Department of Defense (DOD) – includes all military branches Department of Justices (DOJ) Department of State (DOS) Department of Transportation (DOT) Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Federal Drug Administration (FDA) U. S. Agency for International Development (USAID) U.S. Secret Service (USSS) Other 5 Are you currently employed under a Personal Services Agreement (PSA)? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 You answered yes that you are working under a Personal Service Agreement (PSA). Will your PSA end within three months of the closing date of this announcement? Yes No No 6 Are you currently under a Personal Services Contract (PSC)? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 You answered yes that you are working under a Personal Service Contract (PSC). Will your PSC end within three months of the closing date of this announcement? Yes No No 7 Are you currently working as a third-party contractor for the Federal Government? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 You answered yes that you are working as a third-party contractor. Will your third-party contract end within 3 months of the closing date of this announcement? Yes No No 8 Are you currently receiving a U.S. Government retirement annuity/pension from a career in the Foreign Service or Civil Service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Are you a Foreign Service Generalist/Specialist in Leave Without Pay (LWOP) status? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you a Civil Service employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 You answered yes that you are a Civil Service Employee. Will you be resigning from your current Civil Service position within 6 months of the closing date of this announcement? Yes No No 11 Are you in a Leave Without Pay (LWOP) status with reemployment rights? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Please list your sponsoring employee&rsquo;s current or onward overseas post of assignment (list city, country): Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Please indicate the Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA) of sponsoring employee at current or onward overseas post of assignment. Answer to this question is required 14 Are you currently, or have you previously been, employed overseas under a Family Member Appointment (FMA) or Temporary Appointment (TEMP) or under another appointment as a direct hire Federal employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Do you currently hold, or have you ever held, a security clearance issued by the United States Government? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 I certify that all of the information provided in this application is true, correct, complete and made in good faith. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.