Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 This announcement is open to current Library of Congress employees ONLY. By submitting this application, you affirm that: -You are a current Library of Congress employee. -You understand that failure to meet this eligibility criteria automatically disqualifies your application. Answer to this question is required I affirm that I am a current Library of Congress employee and that I meet the eligibility criteria for consideration. I do not meet the eligibility criteria and do not wish to proceed. 3 Ability to provide procurement and contract administration support.** Provided support to procurement staff in the administration and closeout of contracts and orders.This includes: 1) reviews contract files for inclusion of documents, 2) investigates and resolves routine or recurring discrepancies, 3) prepares, verifies, and closes-out procurement documents, files, reports, or records in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulations and Library procedures, 4) maintains the currency of procurement documents or related information, 5) monitors contractor performance and recommends modifications to the contract, 6) selects and completes appropriate form letter for use to notify offers of award, non-selection, late submission, or other formal communications, 7) prepares files for archival storage and stores in accordance with NARA regulations and Library procedures, and 8) investigates client or contractor complaints related to errors in shipment, payment, and/or contract documentation. Answer to this question is required Provided support to procurement staff in the administration and closeout of contracts and orders. Performed ALL of the above activities. Provided support to procurement staff in the administration and closeout of contracts and orders. Performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above activities. Provided support to procurement staff in the administration and closeout of contracts and orders. Performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above activities. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide office systems support.** Provides office systems support to procurement staff. This included tasks such as: 1) maintains work logs, tracks assignments, and keeps supervisor informed of completion, 2) gathers data, prepares reports, and makes recommendations to the supervisors, 3) tracks the status of contracts and orders, 4) assembles contract file information and enters data into the Library's financial system, 5) gathers and consolidates procurement information to assemble and prepare management reports, 6) recommends and assists in the development of automated procurement procedures, and 7) reviews reports and researches errors or conflicting information in procurement documentation. Answer to this question is required Provided office systems support to procurement staff and performed ALL of the above the tasks. Provided office systems support to procurement staff and performed SIX (6) of the above tasks. Provided office systems support to procurement staff and performed FIVE (5) of the above tasks. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan and organize work assignments and set priorities in order to meet deadlines.** Planned and organized work assignments and set priorities in order to meet deadlines. Answer to this question is required Independently planned and organized work assignments and set priorities in order to meet deadlines. With minimal supervision, planned and organized work assignments and set priorities in order to meet deadlines. With supervision, planned and organized work assignments and set priorities in order to meet deadlines. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact with others. Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals to provide administrative support to an organization. Answer to this question is required Worked collaboratively with persons inside and outside the organization to provide customer support and respond to inquiries from staff, vendors and customers. Worked collaboratively primarily with staff within the organization to provide customer support. Worked collaboratively with colleagues and peers internal to the workgroup or division to complete work assignments. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).