Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience which demonstrates the following: (a) Producing CAD drawings and/or Building Information Models (BIM); (b) Conducting on-site surveys of work in progress or completed to verify compliance with master CAD files; and (c) Providing review of contract drawings for compliance with organization standards and requirements. 2 Select the response that best describes your practical experience in the architectural and engineering disciplines and your understanding of how buildings are constructed and operate. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education reading construction drawings and technical specifications for construction projects. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. Grade: 10 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position is defined as having experience which demonstrates the following: (a) Using a Computer Aided Design (CAD) system, to include&nbsp;Building Information Modeling (BIM) and&nbsp;Geographic Information System (GIS); (b) Conducting on-site surveys of work in progress to verify compliance with master CAD files; (c) Providing support of CAD system operations; and (d) Providing review of contract drawings for compliance with organization standards and requirements. 2 Do you have professional experience using and/or supporting others in using a Computer Aided Design (CAD) system, to include&nbsp;Building Information Modeling (BIM), and&nbsp;Geographic Information System (GIS)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the response that best describes your practical experience in the architectural and engineering disciplines and your understanding of how buildings are constructed and operate. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. Grade: All Grades 1 Which computer-aided drafting (CAD) software are you proficient with and have used to develop designs? Answer to this question is required AutoCAD MicroStation (2D) Building Information Modeling (BIM) systems (e.g., MicroStation OpenBuildings Designer, Revit) None of the above 2 Select all disciplines in which you have professional experience in creating or maintaining computer-aided design (CAD) or Building Modeling Information (BIM) drawings. Answer to this question is required Architectural Mechanical Plumbing Fire Protection engineering Civil engineering Landscape planning Electrical None of the above 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using CAD or BIM software to create CAD or BIM files? Answer to this question is required I have performed basic drafting activities (e.g., Adding and editing geometric shapes, lines, and text; Organizing drawing elements using layers; Creating and modifying blocks for repeated elements). I have performed intermediate-level drafting activities (e.g., Working with blocks and attributes to create dynamic and intelligent components; Utilizing external references (Xrefs) to manage large-scale projects and collaborate with others). I have performed advanced drafting activities (e.g., Utilizing advanced annotation tools, such as multileaders, revision clouds, and callouts, to enhance drawing documentation; Integrating AutoCAD with BIM (Building Information Modeling) workflows by using tools like AutoCAD Architecture or AutoCAD MEP for architectural and MEP (Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing) design; Developing custom scripts and macros using AutoLISP, VBA, or .NET to automate repetitive tasks and enhance productivity). None of the above 4 Select all aspects of Computer-Aided Design (CAD) and CAD systems maintenance tasks in which you have professional experience: Answer to this question is required Troubleshooting and support of general CAD/BIM system errors, network performance. Troubleshooting and support of general CAD/BIM system errors, network performance. Maintenance and creation of "As-Is" CAD and BIM facility master drawing files. Producing and updating CAD building information models (BIM). Interacting with application and software manufacturers regarding software operating issues. Staying current with the CAD / BIM hardware and software changes in the architectural and engineering industries. Instructing staff on the use of CAD and BIM software. None of the above 5 Choose the statements that describe your experience and/or training as is relates to your ability to perform the work of this position. Answer to this question is required Reading and interpreting charts, graphs, diagrams, design and construction drawings. Explaining or justifying decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Assisting in planning and conducting engineering and/or research projects. Using technical drawings, specifications, to produce CAD or BIM drawings. Determining or applying basic mathematical or statistical formulas or methods. None of the above 6 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education in converting existing manual construction drawings into CAD drawings. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 7 Select the task(s) that reflects your level of experience. Answer to this question is required Assisted with initial project investigations. Evaluated technical data to ensure accuracy, precision, and reliability. Gathered and evaluated survey data for planning, design, and construction. Conducted technical surveys to determine improvements in facilities. Reviewed CAD/BIM submittals for compliance with agency CAD/BIM standards. None of the above 8 Select the statements that describe your experience communicating with others. Answer to this question is required I have informed others on the status of an assignment or project. I have listened to others and provided information that addressed their specific concerns/needs. I have used effective communication strategies to resolve conflict. I have explained technical information to educate non-technical audiences. I have participated in team collaborations that required frequent communication with team members. None of the above 9 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Established benchmarks or targets and tracked progress towards them. Performance measurement systems or dashboards for tracking. efficiency and accuracy. Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Ensured information is important, trustworthy, and useful, with checks to confirm accuracy and quality. Presented analyses in person None of the above 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Executive search firm Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.