Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 4 Select the answer(s) that describe your HR experience outside of the executive resources area: Answer to this question is required Performance Management Compensation Employee Relations Recruitment & Staffing Workforce Planning RIF Transfer of Function President's Management Agenda Initiatives Classification Position Management Employee Development Executive Development None of the above 5 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 6 From the following list, select the laws, regulations and guidance that you research, interpret and apply on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Operations Manual Qualifications Standard for General Schedule Positions Guide to Personnel Data Standards United States Code (Title 5) Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards and Guides Federal Wage System Job Grading Standards Executive Orders Comptroller General Decisions Senior Executive Service (SES) Guide Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) None of the above 7 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 8 I have provided technical assistance to managers and employees in the following Human Resources speciality area(s): Answer to this question is required HR Information Systems Classification Recruitment and Placement Merit Promotion and Delegated Examining policies Position Management Organizational Design Executive Resources None of the above 9 Which of the following human resources functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determined appropriate nature of action, authority, or remarks codes. Processed a variety of personnel actions. Reviewed personnel actions to ensure all required entries have been included and approvals have been obtained. Ensured accuracy of personnel data based on regulatory authority, instructions, policies and procedures Computes service computation dates (SCD) Purged and reviewed Official Personnel Folders (OPF's) and made necessary corrections as necessary. None of the above 10 Select the area(s) that describe(s) your expertise in executive resource program management, including SES staffing, awards, and performance management. Answer to this question is required SES Staffing SES compensation Political appointments SES performance management Performance Review Boards SES bonuses Presidential Rank Awards SES position management None of the above Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the answer(s) that describe your HR experience outside of the executive resources area: Answer to this question is required Performance Management Compensation Employee Relations Recruitment & Staffing Workforce Planning RIF Transfer of Function President's Management Agenda Initiatives Classification Position Management Employee Development Executive Development None of the above 4 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 5 I have provided technical assistance to managers and employees in the following Human Resources speciality area(s): Answer to this question is required HR Information Systems Classification Recruitment and Placement Merit Promotion and Delegated Examining policies Position Management Organizational Design Executive Resources None of the above 6 Select the area(s) that describe(s) your expertise in executive resource program management, including SES staffing, awards, and performance management. Answer to this question is required SES Staffing SES compensation Political appointments SES performance management Performance Review Boards SES bonuses Presidential Rank Awards SES position management None of the above 7 Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed and which demonstrate your skill in developing and enhancing working partnerships and helping resolve organizational issues: Answer to this question is required Provide frequent briefings to higher-level authority on issues and recommend solutions to problems. Facilitate group sessions (for example, group feedback sessions, focus groups, change management workshops). Prepare and present technical briefings and/or training activities in HR topics to a variety of audiences. Design and implement team building and conflict resolution activities. Establish and execute knowledge management strategies to enhance an organization`s efficiency. Work closely with managers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, or develop improvements. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations. Provide information to supervisor, managers, employees and members of the general public involving clarification of procedures, decisions, problems, or further action needed. Conduct meetings to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts, or resolve HR issues. This would include making presentations to influence individuals or groups who are resistant to agency positions or who have conflicting agendas. Represent the agency HR program in discussions with individuals or groups who may be skeptical or in disagreement and require skill to influence, motivate, question or otherwise gain a desired outcome. Recognized as a technical authority in handling complex HR issues and has played a key role in resolving major precedent-setting HR issues. None of the above. 8 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience providing innovative human resources solutions to complex problems. Answer to this question is required I have developed new insights into situations and applied innovative solutions to Human Resources issues/problems and designed new methods or procedures. I have utilized management skills to anticipate and keep abreast of new and changing initiatives to serve as a consultant and advisor to top management. I have applied knowledge of an organization's culture, mission and functions to provide effective human resource services. I have served on work groups, committees, or task forces as a representative for the organization on technical or professional issues. I have obtained and reviewed feedback on customer service and recommended improvements. I have modified products or services provided based on suggestions or feedback from customer. I have used presentation software to present briefings to top management. I have worked primarily with individual employees on human resources topics or issues which deal with internal organizational concerns. I have worked with technical program managers, supervisors, on human resources issues/problems at operating-level decisions. I have worked within organizational components and at top levels of responsibility on human resources topics or issues. I have provided advice on complex, sensitive, and/or controversial issues requiring negotiation skills. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 9 From the following list, select the laws, regulations and guidance that you research, interpret and apply on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR) Guide to Processing Personnel Actions Delegated Examining Operations Manual Qualifications Standard for General Schedule Positions Guide to Personnel Data Standards United States Code (Title 5) Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended Veterans Guide Position Classification Standards and Guides Federal Wage System Job Grading Standards Executive Orders Comptroller General Decisions Senior Executive Service (SES) Guide Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) None of the above 10 Which of the following human resources functions have you performed? Answer to this question is required Determined appropriate nature of action, authority, or remarks codes. Processed a variety of personnel actions. Reviewed personnel actions to ensure all required entries have been included and approvals have been obtained. Ensured accuracy of personnel data based on regulatory authority, instructions, policies and procedures Computes service computation dates (SCD) Purged and reviewed Official Personnel Folders (OPF's) and made necessary corrections as necessary. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.