Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current Architect of the Capitol (AOC) employee in a permanent position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have led and/or supervised skilled workers in a mechanical trade occupation. Answer to this question is required True 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. False 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for or in collaboration with subordinates Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Made promotion decisions Interviewed job applicants for hire Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Oversaw on the job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set employees` work schedules Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Monitored for unsafe practices None of the above 5 Which aspects of refrigeration/air conditioning have you applied at work? Answer to this question is required Direct digital control (DDC) systems Pneumatic systems Air/pressure flow or fan operations Sub-cooling British Thermal Units (BTUs) Hydronics Piping layout Low voltage power sources Valve types and purposes Heating coils and cooling coils Commercial air handlers Refrigeration systems The purpose of belts in these systems Motors (e.g., single phase, three phase) None of the above 6 Which response best describes your highest level of experience related to commercial air handler units? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge or experience related to commercial air handler units. I understand commercial air handler units based on my training or education, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have installed and maintained commercial air handler units. I have troubleshot and diagnosed issues related to commercial air handler units. 7 What is your experience related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and remotely using a DDC system. I have experience changing temperatures using a DDC system. I have experience driving control valves and damper motors. I have experience programming a DDC system. 8 Have you independently interpreted refrigeration and air conditioning drawings or schematics to explain to or instruct others how to install, maintain, or repair equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which refrigeration or air conditioning materials have you handled at work? Answer to this question is required Strainers Piping types (e.g., cast iron, copper) Ice machine cleaner Simple green Lithium grease High temperature grease Oil (e.g., compressor oil, refrigerant oil, gear oil, air compressor oil) Anti-seize lubricant Polyurethane None of the above 10 What is your experience using refrigerants/Freon? Answer to this question is required I have checked refrigerant/Freon levels. I have added more refrigerant/Freon to a system. I have evacuated refrigerant/Freon from a system. I have charged a system with refrigerant/Freon. None of the above. 11 How have you assisted with maintaining an inventory of tools and equipment? Answer to this question is required Notified a supervisor when supplies were damaged or running low Placed inventory/tracking numbers on tools or equipment Placed inventory in the correct storage place Organized tools or equipment according to inventory plan None of the above 12 How have you used a computer at work? Answer to this question is required To research policies or procedures on the intranet or internet To check current readings/temperatures on a Direct digital control (DDC) system To track my time and attendance To create or update work orders None of the above 13 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting refrigeration/air conditioning problems at work? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior employee or supervisor to resolve problems. I have followed documented procedures (e.g., handbook, SOPs) to resolve problems. I have interpreted documented procedures or relied on my previous experiences to resolve problems. I have created new solutions for unique equipment/system issues. None of the above. 14 Which refrigeration/air conditioning resources have you independently interpreted and applied? Answer to this question is required Schematics Drawings Charts Manufacturer`s equipment manuals Blueprints Equipment specifications Safety Data Sheets (SDS) None of the above 15 Select the surfaces and objects on which you have installed insulation materials. Answer to this question is required Turbines Air ducts Heaters Generators Refrigeration units Piping systems None of the above 16 Which of the following specialized techniques have you performed when installing insulation? Answer to this question is required Blew sound and/or heat insulation into closed spaces. Molded sections of insulation to enclose unique or unusual structures. Fabricated boxes to cover groups of piping elements, enclosed fittings, and flanges. Installed vapor barriers to ensure insulation was vapor and moisture proof. None of the above. 17 What troubleshooting work have you done to correct refrigeration and air conditioning problems? Answer to this question is required Corrected leaking control valves Responded to strange smells coming from the unit Responded to complaints that a room was too hot or too cold Unclogged drains in a fan coil unit Redirected airflow Checked humidity in a room None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.