Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Identify the type of facility/facilities for which you have had&nbsp; facilities management responsibilities. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Primarily residential or standard office space Primarily scientific/technical (e.g. research laboratory) space Mixed-use office, laboratory and residential Scientific facility with associated dormitory, lab, and admin/office space A remote-located facility of mixed-use office, laboratory and residential A high altitude facility of mixed-use office, laboratory and residential None of the above 3 Identify aspects of your work experience that would demonstrate your level of knowledge of a wide variety of construction techniques, practices, and their application in order to properly manage a facilities program. Answer to this question is required I have evaluated specifications and blue prints to ensure compliance with building codes and regulations for construction, maintenance, and repair projects. I have developed and coordinated the initial construction schedule or work plan. I have performed post-inspections for completed projects. I have monitored the progress of construction, maintenance or repair activities I have ensured materials and staff were on-site to start facilities’ projects. I have scheduled different trades to perform services during all phases of facilities projects. I have prepared cost estimates for projects. I have monitored or inspected the work of various skilled tradespersons. I have reviewed progress reports and submittals for payment approval or contract compliance. I have provided management with the contractor's job progress and performance status. I have discussed facility project issues with customers, contractors, and organizations to recommend alternative solutions. I have used automated information systems to create, manage, monitor, update or modify work requests, spreadsheets, and other facility operations-related items. I have inspected buildings and grounds to identify deficiencies and initiate corrective actions. I have no experience in this area. 4 Which statements describe your experience with concepts, principles and methods facility administration related to operations of a complex, geographically remote scientific facility? Answer to this question is required I have direct experience in administration of facility management at a world class, complex, geographically remote, telescope observatory. I have direct experience in administration of facility management at a world class, complex, geographically remote, facility (non-telescope observatory). I have direct experience supporting administration of facility management at a world class, complex, geographically remote, telescope observatory. I have an advanced degree in a field applicable to facility administration. I have worked at a geographically remote, scientific facility. 5 Which statements describe your experience as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Technical Representative (COTR)? Answer to this question is required I am certified at level II as a COTR and have direct experience in the roll of COTR-II for construction, maintenance and repair contracts at a world class telescope observatory. I am certified at level I as a COTR and have direct experience in the roll of COTR for construction, maintenance and repair contracts at a telescope observatory I am certified as a COTR, level II. I am certified as a COTR, level I. 6 Identify the role or roles that you have performed in federal procurement or contract administration. (Check all that Apply) Answer to this question is required Administrative (i.e., general requisitions and/or assembled or obtained procurement documentations such as quotes, justifications, etc.) Requisitioner (i.e., Developed Statements of Work, identified sources, and made recommendations for source selections) Buyer Federal Government Purchase Card Holder Contracting Officer Contracting Officer’s Representative or technical Representative (COR or COTR) Contracting Specialist I have had no experience in Federal procurement or contract administration. 7 Identify the highest value of contracts that you have managed, whether as a federal COR or COTR or private sector equivalent. Answer to this question is required Contracts Contracts between $100k-$1M Contracts > $1M None of the above 8 Which of the following statements best represents your highest level of experience assessing facility conditions? Answer to this question is required I have experience assessing facility conditions by inspecting, evaluating, and troubleshooting mission-critical mechanical/electrical systems at a complex, remote facility. I have experience assessing facility conditions under extensive supervision. I have experience performing repairs and maintenance on mechanical and electrical systems in typical residential or office buildings. I do not have this type of experience. 9 Which statements describe your experience assessing overall condition, performing diagnostic inspections, directing repair work on facility projects? Answer to this question is required I have direct experience running facility operations at a world class telescope observatory where I have assessed overall conditions, performed diagnostic inspections, and directed repair work on facility projects. I have direct experience running facility operations at a non-telescope facilities where I have assessed overall conditions, performed diagnostic inspections, and directed repair work on facility projects. I have direct experience supporting facility operations at a world class telescope observatory where I have aided in assessing overall conditions, performing diagnostic inspections, and directing repair work on facility projects I have direct experience supporting facility operations at a non-telescope observatory where I have aided in assessing overall conditions, performing diagnostic inspections, and directing repair work on facility projects. I have experience on a facility maintenance team. 10 Which statements describe your experience with occupational safety practices and procedures of a facility? Answer to this question is required I have direct experience serving as the lead safety officer at a world class telescope observatory such as the SMA. I have direct experience designing and implementing overall safety programs, serving as the interface to SAO Cambridge Safety Office and SI OSHEM. I have direct experience serving as the lead safety officer at a large remote facility. I have direct experience designing and implementing overall safety programs, serving as the interface to the home office headquarters safety office. I have experience as a safety officer on staff at a world class telescope observatory. I have experience as a safety officer on staff at a remote facility. I have experience as a safety officer at a large facility, not-remote. 11 Select the response that best describes your knowledge of Occupational Safety and Health Act and OSHA safety and health standards. Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of a variety of OSHA standards and have applied them to ensure compliance at a worksite or during the development of compliance assistance materials. I am familiar with OSHA standards, procedures, and principles and work closely with other professionals to evaluate safety and health hazards and compliance. I am familiar with the standards, procedures, and principles but have not applied them on the job. I am not familiar with the stands, procedures, and principles identified. 12 Which of the following statements represents your experience in interacting with various groups and individuals? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have explained agency policies and regulations, provided background on the rationale for these policies, and used negotiation techniques to ensure compliance. I have routinely educated, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. I have routinely worked with internal managers to resolve daily issues. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have routinely worked with internal managers to resolve daily issues. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have not performed any of the tasks described above. 13 Which of the following statements best represents your experience in communicating information in written format? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have composed project status reports. I have prepared business documents and correspondence. I have composed training materials. I have composed complex health and safety documents or correspondence. I have written reports regarding occupational health and safety (such as accident investigation reports, materials to support legal filing, etc.). I have written reports regarding construction/maintenance contractor performance (such as documentation to record performance deficiencies or contract non-compliance to senior management of Contracting Officer). I have written directives, instructions, and safety notices for external distribution. I have written health and safety reports for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I do not have this type of experience. 14 Which statements describe your responsibilities in communicating orally with others performing your work assignment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have negotiated and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial issues with officials of both internal and external organizations. I have provided briefings to my supervisor and/or senior management. I have represented my facility or organization in communicating operational priorities and issues to senior officials and external agency partners. I have conducted training sessions. I do not have this type of experience. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.