Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet this requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Candidates must be currently licensed to practice as practical or vocational nurses in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement described above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit a certified or photostatic copy of the license, a notarized statement attesting to the fact, or a citation of the license number and State issuing it by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the licensure requirement, applicants must have one year of nursing experience equivalent to at least the GS-6 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Dialysis LPN's coordinates the workflow of the unit by assuring day-to-day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner. They also devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have made necessary scheduling or other adjustments in office operation in order to maintain smooth operation of office workflow and accomplishments; and/or I have coordinated monthly Interdisciplinary Team Meetings with Team Leaders and keep minutes of dialysis staff meetings; and/or I have developed and implemented procedures and file systems for the office; and/or I have scheduled nursing department employees for Annual Training and/or other training as directed; and/or I have maintained tracking system of nursing department expenditures; and/or I have trained fellow employees (dialysis technicians and dialysis LPNs) on routine office procedures/ methods; and/or I have trained less experienced staff in planning and organizing workflow. I have made changes in assignments, where necessary for accomplishment of work; and/or I have reviewed work of lower-level subordinates and provided instruction in developing their skills; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects in crisis situations; and/or I have maintained procedures and file systems for the office; and/or I have been responsible for maintenance of dialysis patient roster and treatment schedules; and/or I have given monthly safety talks to inmates. I have gathered information from files for special projects; and/or I have processed time and attendance sheets; and/or I have completed clinic physician pay sheets; and/or I have maintained availability of transportation equipment; and/or I have completed inmate performance evaluations; and/or I have maintained office supplies. None of the above. 4 Dialysis LPN's must be familiar with a variety of medical equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have obtained and documented vital signs; and/or I have documented intake/output; and/or I have turned and positioned patients; and/or I have maintained and accounted for medical equipment and supplies; and/or I have maintained dialysis unit medical supplies. I have cannulated, initiated, terminated and provided Intradialytic monitoring of the dialysis treatment; and/or I have performed oxygen set-up; and/or I have assisted registered nurse with crisis intervention; and/or I have prepared/mixed biocarbonate and/or special baths used in dialysis; and/or I have performed application of external catheter; and/or I have secured specimen for laboratory analysis; and/or I have assisted physician with minor surgical procedures; and/or I have assisted physicians and/or nurses with exams or treatments; and/or I have properly cleaned machinery and maintained equipment used in dialysis daily; and/or I have performed application and use of safety restraints. I have operated/maintained single pass delivery systems, bedside modules, water treatment system and all associated equipment used in the Dialysis Unit; and/or I have been responsible for “start up” and tested water treatment system daily; and/or I have prepared supplies, primed set-up used for dialysis treatment on single pass, single patient machines; and/or I have performed trouble-shooting on complex equipment to prevent damage or malfunctions of equipment referring most damaged to engineer; and/or I have placed patient on monitor and observed rhythm strips; and/or I have changed fresh post-operative dressings; and/or I have initiated peripheral intravenous accesses and flushed peripheral accesses with heparin; and/or I have changed IV bottles. None of the above. 5 Dialysis LPN's must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with staff in the health care setting, other health care providers, and inmate patients. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have instructed patients in activities of daily living; and/or I have recognized and reported change in patient physical/psychological condition; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from other departments; and/or I have instructed family members in how to assist with patient’s care and activities; and/or I have conveyed non-technical written information in logs/reports/memos. I have recognized and reported to superiors any behaviors/actions which might indicate a threat to security or the safety of others; and/or I have successfully assisted in calming inmates/patients/individuals in situations where verbal abuse, combative behavior, assaults, or other forms of aggression were present; and/or I have maintained good rapport with physicians and responded to requests of superiors; and/or I have worked comfortably and clarified patient’s orders with physicians; and/or I have recognized and reported a physical or psychological change in a patient's condition requiring further assessment; and/or I have actively participated or assisted superior(s) in nursing inservice activities such as dialysis conferences, nursing seminars and workshops. I have performed in-service programs and provided on-the-job training for other medical nursing assistant/inmate workers; and/or I have approached supervisor/physician to clarify order written on patient chart; and/or I have provided clear, concise written and oral reports concerning pertinent patient information and/or correctional/security issues; and/or I have participated with team in developing patient treatment plans; and/or I have served as preceptor or resource person to less experienced staff; and/or I have reinforced patient teaching/instruction. None of the above. 6 Dialysis LPN's must have a practical knowledge of anatomy and physiology and a familiarity with acceptable medical words, terms, and abbreviations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have taken a formal (advanced) class, other than required in Dialysis training; and/or I have assisted with procedures, laboratory and radiological requisitions; and/or I have reported vital signs and measurements that deviate from norms to the charge nurse; and/or I have monitored skin integrity. I have assisted in ambulation; and/or I have collected specimens such as stool, sputum, and/or urine; and/or I have assisted with daily hygiene such as bathing, whirlpool, mouth care, etc. I have monitored alignment; and/or I have monitored body mechanics; and/or I have applied oxygen by nasal cannula. None of the above. 7 Dialysis LPN's must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patient's physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have recognized and reported signs and symptoms generally found in geriatric patients such as mental confusion; and/or I have recognized and reported signs and symptoms of memory deficit; and/or I have recognized and reported signs and symptoms of lethargy; and/or I have recognized and reported changes in bowel/bladder functions. I have recognized and reported signs and symptoms indicating deterioration in a patients condition such as slurred speech, decrease in grip, drooping of mouth/eyelid; and/or I have recognized and reported sudden decrease in activity level, and changes in the patient's involvement in care. I have readily recognized, identified, and reported major changes in a patient's physical and medical condition/status that had been previously undetected; and/or I have documented and reported suspected changes in emotional status or level of consciousness to appropriate staff, under established protocols; and/or I have detected and reported changes in vital signs; and/or I have recognized and reported impairment of skin integrity. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).