Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience performing independent technical examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition, including the kind and extent of deterioration and treatment needed if any? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing independent technical examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition, including the kind and extent of deterioration and treatment needed if any. I have experience performing independent technical examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition. I have experience performing independent examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition. I have experience performing examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition. I have experience performing examinations of works of art. I do not have related experience. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience performing independent technical examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition, including the kind and extent of deterioration and treatment needed if any? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing independent technical examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition, including the kind and extent of deterioration and treatment needed if any. I have experience performing independent technical examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition. I have experience performing independent examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition. I have experience performing examinations of works of art submitted to a lab to determine its condition. I have experience performing examinations of works of art. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience documenting all work with written reports, photographs, and other data entry as appropriate for conservation records in accordance with AIC guidelines and ethics? Answer to this question is required I have experience documenting all work with written reports, photographs, and other data entry as appropriate for conservation records in accordance with AIC guidelines and ethics. I have experience documenting all work with written reports, photographs, and other data entry as appropriate for conservation records. I have experience documenting all work with written reports, photographs, and other data entry. I have experience documenting all work with written reports and photographs. I have experience documenting all work with written reports. I do not have related experience. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience with conservation treatment? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to perform conservation treatment on modern and contemporary art works on paper. I am familiar with how to perform conservation treatment on modern and contemporary art works on paper, but do not have experience performing treatment. I have performed conservation treatment on modern and contemporary art works on paper (under supervision). I have performed conservation treatment on modern and contemporary art works on paper (independently). I have performed conservation treatment on modern and contemporary art works on paper (independently and I have supervised others performing treatment). 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with performing object-level conservation surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with or knowledge of how to perform object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs. I am familiar with how to perform object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs, but do not have experience performing them. I have performed object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs (under supervision). I have performed object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs (independently). I have performed object-level surveys to determine object condition and treatment needs (independently and I have supervised others performing this work). 9 Do you have knowledge of principles, concepts, and methodologies requisite to perform conservation treatments, e.g., chemistry, material technology and deterioration, and art historical and technological understanding of museum artifacts that includes paintings created on various substrates and using different paint mediums. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following best describes your experience performing extremely delicate treatments and operations on fragile artworks which suffer from damage and deterioration? Answer to this question is required I have experience performing delicate treatments and operations on fragile artworks which suffer from damage and deterioration. I have experience performing delicate treatments and operations on fragile artworks which suffer from damage. I have experience performing delicate treatments and operations on fragile artworks. I have experience performing delicate treatments on fragile artworks. I have experience performing treatments on fragile artworks. I do not have related experience. 11 Do you have experience supporting the goals of the unit by providing information and advice to the public while performing treatments, participating in lab tours and gallery talks? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing and presenting lectures and other education materials for interns, docents, and other museum groups? Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing and presenting lectures and other education materials for interns, docents, and other museum groups. I have experience preparing and presenting lectures and other education materials for interns and docents. I have experience preparing and presenting lectures and other education materials for interns. I have experience preparing and presenting lectures and other education materials. I have experience preparing and presenting lectures. I do not have related experience. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience occasionally serving as consultant to other organizational offices, government agencies, private and state museums, organizations, and individuals as to their conservation and preservation needs? Answer to this question is required I have experience occasionally serving as a consultant to other organizational offices, government agencies, private and state museums, organizations, and individuals as to their conservation and preservation needs. I have experience occasionally serving as a consultant to other organizational offices, government agencies, private and state museums, and organizations as to their conservation and preservation needs. I have experience occasionally serving as a consultant to other organizational offices, government agencies, private and state museums as to their conservation and preservation needs. I have experience occasionally serving as a consultant to other organizational offices, and government agencies, as to their conservation and preservation needs. I have experience occasionally serving as a consultant to other organizational offices as to their conservation and preservation needs. I do not have related experience. 14 Do you conduct research to improve conservation materials and techniques to keep informed of current developments in paintings conservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.