Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose one statement that describes how you meet the basic education requirements for this position.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have undergraduate and/or graduate education with a major in illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. I have advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above. I possess specialized experience in the actual type of work for which application is made. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of management support staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in an administrative unit and creating work plans and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating work of subordinates including development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience providing counseling to employees on administrative matters including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counselings. I have experience interviewing candidates for vacancies. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience in an art museum exhibition production&nbsp; facility (or similar setting)? (Select only one answer). Answer to this question is required I have served as a supervisor developing exhibits in an art museum exhibition production facility. I have served as a project leader on multiple projects developing exhibits in a museum exhibition production facility. I have served as project leader on a project developing an exhibit for a museum exhibition production facility. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of art exhibition planning and production? (Check one) Answer to this question is required I have supervised more than three exhibitions per year in a museum setting, interacting with internal and external colleagues; maintained and reviewed schedules, checklists, and budgets; and proposed or negotiated solutions to scheduling, exhibition preparations or budget and financial concerns. I have supervised more than one exhibition per year in a museum setting, interacting with multiple offices and external lenders; maintained and reviewed schedules, checklists, and budgets; and notified senior staff of potential problems, recommending resolutions. I have supervised one exhibition per year in a museum setting, interacting with multiple offices; compiling and distributing schedules, checklists, and budgets; and notifying senior staff of potential problems. I have worked on exhibitions in a museum setting, monitoring timelines and budgets, interacting mostly with people in my own office. I have assisted with work on exhibitions in a museum setting, interacting with people in my office and assisting with meeting office deadlines. I do not have museum-based experience in exhibition planning and production. 6 Which statement best describes your level of experience with using industry standard design software? Answer to this question is required I have significant experience designing museum exhibits using 2D AND 3D software such as Adobe Creative Suite, VectorWorks or similar. I have significant experience designing museum exhibits or similar projects using 2D OR 3D software such as Adobe Creative Suite, VectorWorks or similar. I have experience designing museum exhibits or similar projects using 2D and/or 3D software such as Adobe Creative Suite, VectorWorks or similar. I have some experience, education, or training in the use of 2D and/or 3D software such as Adobe Creative Suite, VectorWorks, or similar. I have no knowledge or experience using industry standard design software. 7 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience designing exhibits? Answer to this question is required I served as lead designer and/or led a design team in managing the design and production of museum exhibition projects. I served as lead designer on museum exhibition projects from concept through production. As a member of a design team, I served as lead designer on elements of museum exhibition or similar projects. As a member of a design team, I have designed elements of museum exhibitions or similar projects. I do not have experience performing this task. 8 Choose the example(s) of specialized experience that best reflects your work experience. Choose all that apply: Answer to this question is required Drawing conclusions and making recommendations by analyzing facts and conditions and making comparisons of price, discounts, delivery dates or handling charges. Reading and interpreting procurement regulations and technical material, and translating the guidance into specific actions. Soliciting bids to procure a variety of goods and services. Performing basic analysis for firm fixed-price or similar contracts. Analyzing contract provisions and recommending termination or modification of purchase orders or contracts. Investigating complaints by reconstructing and reconciling incomplete information. Negotiating new contracts due to changes in scope of work. Conducting pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions for a variety of specialized equipment, services, exhibition design/fabrication, construction, building restoration or renovations, architectural and engineering studies/design. Performing price analysis of practices related to increased material, labor, or transportation costs. Planning and conducting negotiations on price and other issues. Serving as advisor to program officials in procurement planning meetings. Being responsible for contract administration. 9 Which of the following describes your experience with exhibit construction requirements and techniques used in a museum, cultural, educational or historical organization on a regular and recurring basis? (Select all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience with exhibit-related technology. I have experience with exhibits construction and fabrication materials. I have experience with exhibits construction and fabrication tools. I have experience with exhibits construction and fabrication machinery. I have experience with exhibits construction and fabrication and equipment. I have experience with exhibits construction and fabrication techniques and processes. I have experience with exhibition materials such as labels, artworks, and reference documents for specific programs. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in contracting for&nbsp; Construction and/or Architect/Engineering services? Answer to this question is required As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have routinely and independently solicited exhibit design and fabrication and have negotiated and administered the resulting contracts. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with senior management at all levels to convey the relevant policies, regulations, and procedures in these actions. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly solicited exhibit design and fabrication services and have negotiated and administered the resulting contracts. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have assisted in the solicitation of exhibit design and fabrication and assisted in the negotiation and administration of the resulting contracts. This included understanding and being familiar with the relevant policies, regulations, and procedures in these actions. None of the above 11 Which best describes your experience in design managing large exhibition spaces? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have design managed exhibition contractors for 50,000 square feet or greater of exhibition space. I have design managed exhibition contractors for 20,000 square feet or greater of exhibition space. I have design managed exhibition contractors for 5,000 square feet or greater of exhibition space. I have design managed exhibition contractors for less than of exhibition space. I have not design managed exhibition contractors. 12 Which of the of the following describe your skill in developing budgets? (choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience developing budgets for the design and production of large multifaceted exhibitions. I have experience developing budgets the design and production of exhibitions. I have experience developing budgets for the design of public spaces. I have experience developing budgets from a variety of funding sources. I have experience developing budgets from a single funding source. I have training or education on budget formulation but have not used it on the job. I do not have experience developing budgets. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience developing exhibit production budgets and schedules? (Select only one answer). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing exhibit fabrication and installation budget estimates, schedules and for contracting experience preparing initial written scopes through solicitation and contract award, on-site inspections, and work approval. I have experience preparing exhibit fabrication and installation budget estimates, schedules and for contracting experience preparing initial written scopes through solicitation and contract award. I have experience preparing exhibit fabrication and installation budget estimates and schedules. None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.