Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience installing, maintaining, modifying, and repairing electronic systems? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to this task but have not yet applied it on the job. I have installed, maintained, modified, and repaired electronic systems under close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, and repaired electronic systems. I have led or instructed others to install, maintain, modify, and repair electronic systems using proper procedures. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with BASnet systems? Answer to this question is required I have no training or knowledge with BASnet systems. I have completed education or training on BASnet systems. I have installed BASnet systems. I have operated BASnet systems. I have modified BASnet systems. 4 Do you&nbsp;have experience operating any Control System? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which of the following types of refrigeration equipment have you been responsible for repairing? Answer to this question is required Reach in refrigerators Reach in freezers Walk-in coolers Walk-in Freezers Blast chillers Cold pans None of the Above 6 Do you have experience independently maintaining and repairing control equipment such as PLC, DCS rooms PCs, servers, routers, HVAC controls, VFD controls, electric power meters, uninterruptible power supplies, vibration/motion detection devices, recorders, electronic metering equipment, security and intrusion devices, radio frequency transmitting and receiving devices and other related electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Select the documents you have interpreted to design, install, or repair a system. Answer to this question is required Engineering drawings Schematics Logic diagrams Mechanical drawings None of the above 8 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience with Building Automation Systems (BAS) and Direct Digital Controls (DDC)? Answer to this question is required I have no training or experience with building automation systems. I have completed education or training on building automation systems. I have operated building automation systems. I have modified building automation systems. I have used a building automation system to create a program and/or graphics. 9 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience installing, maintaining, modifying and repairing commercial refrigeration equipment and commercial cooking appliance? Answer to this question is required I have led or instructed others to install, maintain, modify, and repair refrigeration equipment and commercial cooking appliance using proper procedures I have independently installed, maintained, modified and repaired refrigeration equipment and commercial cooking appliance I have installed, maintained, modified, and repaired refrigeration equipment and commercial cooking appliance under close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have completed education or training related to this task but have not applied it on the job. 10 Have you used a digital multi-meter to test electronic equipment or systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which of the following types of systems have you been responsible for operating or maintaining? Answer to this question is required DDC BASNet PLC None of the above 12 Select all areas related to building automation technology in which you have some experience. Answer to this question is required Control system design HVAC systems Building electrical systems None of the above 13 Which systems have you installed, repaired and or troubleshot as part of your professional work experience as a Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic? Answer to this question is required HVAC systems Fire alarm systems Building automation systems Direct Digital Controls (DDC) systems Electrical/Lighting Systems Audio Visual Control Systems Mechanical Controls Systems Plumbing Systems Commercial Cooking Equipment Refrigeration Systems/ Equipment None of the Above 14 Do you have experience troubleshooting electronic systems for which minimal documentation exists? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using schematics and mechanical drawing to repair complex problems with refrigeration equipment and cooking appliance. Answer to this question is required I completed education or training related to this task but not have applied it on the job to repair complex problems with refrigeration equipment and cooking appliance. I have used schematics and mechanical drawing under close supervision or assistance from senior workers to repair complex problems with refrigeration equipment and cooking appliance. I have independently used schematics and mechanical drawing to repair complex problems with refrigeration equipment and cooking appliance. I have led or instructed others how to use schematics and mechanical drawing to repair complex problems with refrigeration equipment and cooking appliance. 16 Which of the following types of commercial cooking appliances have you been responsible for repairing? Answer to this question is required Electric or gas Fryers Electric or gas Cook tops, (griddles, burners) Electric or gas convection ovens Electric or gas Combination ovens Electric or gas kettles, tilt skillets Electric or gas steam wells None of the Above 17 As an essential employee, are you willing to report to work during emergencies and inclement weather situations? And to work holidays and weekends on a rotating shift and with recurring basis subject to management's discretion? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Are you are available to work 3rd (night) shifts ? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 19.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.