Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not have 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have served as a Contracting Technical Representative (COTR). I have written scopes of work (SOWs) for Requests for Proposals (RFPs) or Requests for Quotations (RFQs). I have served on contract evaluation and selection committees. I have monitored contract performance and approved work for payment. I have monitored multiple contracts with varying schedules. I have developed statements of work for procurement and contracts. None of the above. 3 Which statement best describes your highest knowledge level of procurement procedures; ability to approve purchase orders of $10,000 or more? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, 1 have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with a government purchase card? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of government purchase card principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have worked with a government purchase card holder to process a purchase request. I have been a government purchase card holder for less than 5 years. I have been a government purchase card holder for over 5 years. None of the above. 5 Which of the following reflects your experience overseeing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (i.e., statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc.). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement None of the above. 6 Which of the following describes your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ordered a wide variety of goods and services and tracked delivery of said goods. I completed requisite training, was issued a government purchase card and used said card for approved purchases. I have conducted market research for product options, availability and pricing. I have education and/or training in procurement but do not have experience performing these duties. I have extensive knowledge of Federal procurement regulations and procedures including funds management. None of the above. 7 Select the statement(s) that best describes your experience completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages. Answer to this question is required I have experience rearranging workload priorities to complete the procurement process and submit purchase request packages while maintaining a timely and high-quality level of performance on other assigned actions. I have experience dealing with assignments that are “out of the ordinary”, oftentimes with program personnel that have no prior experience with the procurement process. I have experience completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages under a great deal of pressure to meet extremely short deadlines while dealing with the demands for action that may be improper or unfeasible. I have some experience in completing the procurement process and submitting purchase request packages. None of the above. 8 Choose all of the parts of the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) you apply on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Part 12 - Commercial Items. Part 1 3 - Simplified Acquisitions. Part 15 - Negotiated Procurements. Part 19 - Small Business Programs. Part 42 - Contract Administration and Audit Services. Part 43 - Contract Modifications. Part 27 - Patents, Data, and Copyrights Part 28 - Bonds and Insurance Part 33 - Protests, Disputes, and Appeals Part 36 - Construction and Architect-Engineer Contracts Part 37 - Service Contracting Part 49 - Termination of Contracts Part 52 - Clauses I have only minimal experience related to applying some of the FAR. I have no experience applying the FAR. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in applying knowledge of contracting laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to plan and direct large-scale contracting and procurement programs? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have not done any of the above tasks. 10 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have monitored performance and compliance with the terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have maintained contract signatory authority not to exceed $25,000.00. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods meet all legal and organizational requirements. I have not performed any of these job functions. 11 Do you have experience applying Federal procurement regulations, such as the Federal Acquisition regulations (FAR)? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following best describes your experience procuring goods and services for an organization including preparing product specifications and "statements of work" for contract services? Answer to this question is required I have experience ensuring that expenditures are made in accordance with established policies organizational and Federal government policies and rules. I have experience reviewing documents authorizing payments of funds. I have experience determining the proper amount due and process the necessary payment transactions. I have experience responding to written or oral inquiries concerning payments or audit-related information. I do not have related experience. 13 With which of the following elements of supervision do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance evaluation Recruitment / hiring Discipline Awards Leave Scheduling Staffing Conflict resolution Coaching and or counseling Labor relations Managing diversity Team, project, and/or task leader None of the above 14 Which of the following best describes your experience leading or managing others? Answer to this question is required I have led or managed one or more interns I have led or managed one full-time staff member. I have led or managed two or three full-time staff members. I have led or managed four or more full-time staff members. I do not have experience leading or managing others. 15 Which of the following statements describe your ability to advise management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted complex studies relating to management analysis, organizational dynamics, and administrative program management. I have conducted studies of organizational elements and worked to identify problems and approve resource use, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness. I have determined resource requirements (for example, staffing, funding, equipment) based on program or project objectives. I have participated in management studies/surveys for purposes of streamlining processes and improving program operation. I have evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, reports, policies, and directives. I have translated analytical findings into practical recommendations. I have used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and to make recommendations. I have provided advice and possible solutions for dealing with administrative problems in the most effective manner to maintain employee moral, achieve the best utilization of facilities and equipment, and to reduce costs. I have advised management on organizational structures and work methods and procedures. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations. I have served as the organization?s objective arms to help identify and resolve administrative and management problems. I have provided advice on potential congressional reactions to proposed budgets, and determine positive course of action in response to congressional action. None of the above. 16 Which of the following have you performed as it relates to personnel supervision? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have recruited new employees. I have interviewed and/or selected new employees. I have trained employees. I have supervised and/or managed employees. I have evaluated the performance of employees. I have made promotion decisions about employees. I have not had any personnel supervision experience. 17 Which of the following lifecycle functional programs have you been responsible for managing? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Accountability Reports of survey Acquisition Maintenance management Utilization management Disposition None of the above 18 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in applying best practices, industry standards, and consensus standards in a property management program? Answer to this question is required I have identified and participated in the implementation of a property management best practice, industry standard, or consensus standard in a museum, research center, or university. I have identified and participated in the implementation of a property management best practice, industry standard, or consensus standard in a federal agency. I have identified and participated in the implementation of a property management best practice, industry standard, or consensus standard in an organization other than a museum research center, university, or federal agency. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. None of the above. 19 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in conducting self-assessments of a property management program? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 20 Which of the following certifications from the National Property Management Association (NPMA) do you have? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required CPPS - Certified Professional Property Specialist CPPA - Certified Professional Property Administrator CPPM - Certified Professional Property Manager None of the above 21 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing contracting reports and statements that include options and recommendations for management? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in collecting and compiling pertinent documentation including statistical data and reports (including written summaries based on analysis of data and recommendations on appropriate courses of action)? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 23 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in presenting ideas clearly and concisely in writing? Answer to this question is required I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in written communication. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have completed formal education or training in written communication, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have presented ideas clearly and concisely in writing as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 24 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in communicating effectively in writing in order to obtain information and convey results? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.