Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 Which of the following functions have you performed in a supervisory role? Answer to this question is required I have created staff positions. I have conducted performance appraisals. I have interviewed and hired staff. I have terminated employees or performed other adverse actions. I have identified employees for bonuses, awards, or other incentives. I have promoted Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) program adherence. I have identified training and developmental needs for employees. None of the above 3 In which of the following areas of building management operations do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Mechanical operations Custodial operations Waste Management Pest control Repairs and alterations Grounds maintenance Quality assurance Energy conservation Asbestos abatement Electrical systems Vertical transportation Project development Facility Assessment Contract Administration None of the above 4 Which of the following building systems and/or programs do you have experience managing? Answer to this question is required Vertical transportation systems Mechanical systems Electrical systems Project development Capital improvement Quality assurance Custodial Contract administration Facility assessment Asbestos abatement Historic preservation None of the above 5 From the list below, identify all audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or given presentations. Answer to this question is required Private Industry Senior officials Colleagues Government organizations General public Technical experts Professional organizations Contractor representative None of the above 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Opinion piece for newspaper Letters to the editor Press releases and fact sheets Speeches Communications plans Policy guidance Congressional testimony Correspondence Feature articles Talking points Decision memos Brochures Video scripts Books Budget justifications None of the above 7 In which of the following areas of building management operations do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Mechanical operations Custodial operations Waste Management Pest control Repairs and alterations Grounds maintenance Quality assurance Energy conservation Asbestos abatement Electrical systems Vertical transportation None of the above 8 Please identify those customer service skills you have routinely and successfully applied at work. Answer to this question is required Diplomacy Responsiveness Compromise Persuasiveness Identifying the need / requirement Negotiating Accommodation Collaboration Prioritization Monitoring Response Analysis Capabilities Planning Resolving conflict None of the above 9 Which of the following project management tools / techniques do you prefer to use? Answer to this question is required Delegate, manage, and monitor task completion. Hands-on management of project tasks. Project management software to track progress. Solicit periodic feedback from stakeholders. Negotiate project funding and timelines. None of the above. 10 With which of the following computer applications do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation / graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical / quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools None of the above 11 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Correspondence Budget justifications Technical reports Policy Guidance Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Statements of Work (SOW) Contract Solicitation Capital Improvements Performance Evaluations Contractor Past Performance Evaluations Performance Awards Technical Review Reports Independent Government Estimates (IGE) None of the above 12 Which of the following Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) activities have you performed for building management contracts? Answer to this question is required Manage and oversee contractual obligations. Serve as an interface between project managers and contractors. Monitor contractor adherence to work specifications and milestones. Quality control and assurance functions on contract deliverables. Advise management on the types of support available. Resolve issues between the government and vendors. Certify payment for goods or services provided. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best reflects your level of experience in managing a comprehensive building and facilities management program? Answer to this question is required I have some experience managing major elements of a building management program. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program which included geographically dispersed sites / facilities which were contained in one state. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program which includes geographically dispersed sites / facilities, but which were contained in two states. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program that included sites / facilities dispersed across several states. None of the above. 14 How large of a facilities portfolio have you managed? Answer to this question is required Greater than 2 million square feet 1.5 million to 2 million square feet 1 million to 1.5 million square feet 500,000 to 1 million square feet Less than 500,000 square feet None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.