Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the development, production, and installation of Audio Visual (AV) media, multimedia, and interactive components of AV media for exhibitions or other public displays.** Demonstrated ability to develop, produce, and install digital assets and components of Audio Visual media, multimedia, and interactive components of AV media in support of exhibits or other public displays through the following functions: 1) supporting the design, programming, and technical requirements of AV media activities; 2) coordinating the details involved in the design and install of exhibition projects and components; 3) creating and managing production schedules for the areas of responsibility in coordination with the overall schedule of a given exhibition or public display; 4) identifying and implementing options for improving the maintenance and performance of exhibition AV media components; and 5) providing design and implementation efforts for AV programs. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, conducted FOUR of the above tasks in support of exhibits or other public displays. Independently or with minimal supervision conducted THREE of the above tasks in support of exhibits or other public displays. Under supervision conducted TWO or THREE of the above tasks in support of exhibits or other public displays. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the techniques and materials used in the fabrication and installation of exhibit components for museum-quality exhibitions.** Following designs to install exhibits or public programs for culturally diverse audiences. Answer to this question is required Installed small exhibits or portions of large exhibitions based on pre-defined formats such as those that involved the use of photographs, simple texts, illustrations, etc. Assisted in the installation of exhibits based on pre-defined formats that conveyed a single direct message through visual means. Completed isolated support tasks in the maintenance of small exhibits based on specific instruction from a supervisor. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to handle a variety of valuable and sometimes fragile objects using approved museum/conservation techniques.** Demonstrated knowledge of the collection, custody, presentation, display, and interpretation of art works, cultural objects, and other artifacts such as books, fine prints, manuscripts, photographs, maps, and three-dimensional objects to satisfy exhibit design and conservation requirements. Answer to this question is required Integrated ideas, collections, and visual elements for projects using various materials and techniques to fulfill design and conservation requirements. Assisted with exhibit design and conservation using basic techniques such as testing new conservation products for effectiveness and painting or speckling walls to prepare or refurbish exhibitions areas. Received training in the design or conservation of artwork, cultural objects, and artifacts such as construction and detail drawings, placement and installation of exhibit elements, proper cleaning methods, and equipment, and supplies needed. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide liaison services. Interacted collaboratively with others and provided liaison services to exchange information with persons and groups inside and outside of an organization. Answer to this question is required Developed and/or maintained professional contacts or cooperative relationships and presented information to high-level managers. Worked collaboratively with executives and senior managers, staff, contractors, volunteers, and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. Developed and/or maintained professional contacts to establish cooperative relationships and explained information to managers. Worked collaboratively with staff, contractors, volunteers, and visitors both internal and external to the organization to accomplish program objectives. Developed professional contacts to maintain cooperative relationships and explained information to managers. Worked collaboratively with staff, contractors, and volunteers internal to the organization to accomplish program objectives. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to research and analyze information technology issues and programs as it relates to audio visual media. Demonstrated ability to research, analyze, and provide solutions for information technology issues as it relates to audio visual media in the following capacity: 1) maintenance of professional skill level, including knowledge of industry trends and best practices in navigation, information architecture, accessibility, and usability; 2) monitoring of emerging audio visual technologies; 3) identification of relevant issues and solutions; and 4) making informed recommendations to stakeholders. Answer to this question is required Researched, analyzed, and provided solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to Audio Visual (AV) media in a professional environment. This included ALL of the above. Researched, analyzed, and provided solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to Audio Visual (AV) media for public use and consumption in a professional environment. This included TWO or THREE of the above. Researched, analyzed, and provided solutions for workflow, presentation, description, and/or access issues pertinent to Audio Visual (AV) media for public use and consumption in an academic or learning environment. This included TWO or THREE of the above. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Skill in the use and maintenance of tools and machinery and a variety of building and archival materials for the production of exhibit components. Used the skills necessary to use and maintain the equipment and tools for the fabrication of exhibit components, such as special mounts, brackets, book cradles, mats, frames, text panels, and labels. Answer to this question is required Performed museum exhibit work including fabricating and installing detailed exhibit items and/or structures, performing routine exhibit maintenance, and constructing and packing a wide variety of sturdy, specialized shipping containers. Provided assistance to supervisors, higher-grade employees, and labor crews in museum exhibit work such as general fabrication and installation of exhibits, maintenance activities, and packing and shipping of exhibit elements and parts. Received training in the artistic and technical principles, practices, and procedures involved in producing, installing, maintaining, and shipping exhibits. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to manage a diverse workload and to work simultaneously on exhibitions and projects with numerous deadlines. Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work assignments in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, prioritized, organized, and completed work assignments for self and workgroup, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required input and resources needed, established schedules, and met deadlines and milestones. With minimal supervision, planned, organized, and completed work assignments, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required inputs and resources needed, and met deadlines and milestones. Completed work assignments primarily planned by supervisor. Identified work objectives and followed well established procedures, meeting deadlines. None of the Above 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).