Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. Grade: 07 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In order to be deemed as qualified, candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service.&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined as follows: Assisting more experienced engineers Conducting and analyzing basic engineering studies; and Performing computer based projects using various software applications 1 GS-7: In addition to the basic requirements, choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with the requirements for the engineering position at this level. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have ONE year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement (SAA). SAA is defined as class standing, upper third of graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, e.g., College of liberal Arts or School of Business Administration. Grade-point average of 3.0 or higher out of possible 4.0 or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 in the major field during the final 2 years of the curriculum. I have one year of specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-5. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. Grade: 09 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In order to be deemed as qualified candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service.&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined as follows: Assisting more experienced engineers Conducting, analyzing, and writing basic engineering studies; and Performing computer based projects using various software applications 1 GS-9: In addition to the basic requirements, choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with the requirements for the engineering position at this level.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have TWO years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree. I have one year of specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-7. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. Grade: 11 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In order to be deemed as qualified candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service.&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined as follows: Assist more experienced engineers Independently conduct and analyze, and write basic engineering studies; and Perform computer based projects using various software applications 1 GS-11: In addition to the basic requirements, choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with the requirements for the engineering position at this level.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have THREE years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a PH.D. degree or equivalent graduate degree. I have one year of specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-9. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Are you a U.S. citizen? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6.1 If you are not a US citizen you may be eligible for consideration if you meet one of the categories listed below. If you meet one of the categories, you are still subject to the requirements of immigration laws. You must provide documentation supporting your eligibility prior to being hired. For more information about citizenship requirements for Federal employment, please visit the Office of Personnel Management's website at http://www.usajobs.gov/ResourceCenter/Index/Interactive/NonCitizensEmployment#icc. Please choose the one response that represents your status: I owe permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, natives of American Samoa and Swains Island); I am lawfully admitted for permanent residence and seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); I am admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or have been granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and have filed a declaration of intention to become lawful permanent resident and then citizen when eligible. None of the above. 7 Basic Requirements. Choose the response(s) that best describes your education/experience in accordance with the requirements for the engineering position at this level: Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree which includes differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience by my current registration as a professional engineer by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience and have successfully passed the Engineering-In-Training (EIT) examination, or written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Board of Engineering Examiners in the various states, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science including engineering courses specified in Choice 1. I have completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology, or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 8 What is the academic major of your Bachelor's degree? Answer to this question is required Aerospace Engineering Agricultural Engineering Architectural Engineering Biomedical Engineering Bioengineering Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Biochemical Engineering Biomolecular Engineering Civil Engineering Communications Engineering Computer Engineering Construction Engineering Cybersecurity Engineering Electrical Engineering Engineering Management Engineering Mechanics Environmental Engineering General Engineering/Engineering Physics/Science Fire Protection Engineering Geological Engineering Industrial Engineering Manufacturing Engineering Materials and Metallurgical and Ceramics Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mineral Processing and Extractive Metallurgical Engineering Mining Engineering Naval Architecture/Marine Engineering Nuclear and Radiological Engineering Optical and Photonic Engineering Petroleum Engineering Software Engineering and Computer Science Surveying Engineering Systems Engineering Telecommunications Engineering Other None of the above 9 Date of graduation for degree cited in previous question. Answer to this question is required 10 Please indicate which of the following courses you successfully completed. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Computer Networks Internet (IP) networking Communication Theory Signal Processing Analog and Digital Communications Network Antenna Theory Integrated Circuits and Devices Radar Technology Fiber Optics Lasers Satellite Communications Technical writing Digital Electronic Circuit Design Solid State Devices RF/Microwave Circuits and Systems RF Engineering for Telecommunications Communication Networks Communications System Design Control Systems Design Image Processing Mobile Communications Systems Propagation analysis and modeling Electromagnetic Theory Software-Defined Radio Field-Programmable Devices Object-Oriented Programming Signals and Systems Random Processes Remote Sensing Probability and Statistics Network Security None of the above 11 What was your particular area of study or expertise? Answer to this question is required No particular area of study Computer Hardware and Software Embedded Electronic Circuit Design Power Integrated Circuits Electromagnetics Medical imaging and Devices Telecommunications Network Technology Next-Generation Electronics and Computing Radio Frequency Robotics and Autonomous Systems Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Antennas and Propagation Communications Theory and Systems Communications Networks Signal and Image Processing Lasers, Optics, and Photonics Control Systems Information Systems and Data Science Cybersecurity Other View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).