Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NF-13 level defined as being responsible for administering and managing enterprise identity and access management services, endpoint management solutions, and end-user computing environments to ensure secure, reliable, and efficient access to organizational systems, applications, and data. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 List and briefly describe you experience with any endpoint management solutions you have administered (e.g., Microsoft Intune, Microsoft Configuration Manager (SCCM/MECM), Microsoft AD, JAMF, Tanium, etc.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 List and briefly describe the identity and access management technologies you have administered? (e.g., Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Entra ID, Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), Single Sign-On (SSO), Privileged Access Management (PAM), etc.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Describe your experience deploying, configuring, or managing Windows and macOS endpoint devices in an enterprise environment. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Describe your experience implementing endpoint management activities such as software deployment, operating system upgrades, patch management, device provisioning, or compliance monitoring Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Which identity and access management technologies have you administered? (Select all that apply and briefly describe your experience.) (i) Microsoft Active Directory, (ii) Microsoft Entra ID, (iii) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), (iv) Single Sign-On (SSO), (v)Privileged Access Management (PAM), (vi) Other (please specify) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Describe your experience managing user accounts and access, including account provisioning, deprovisioning, role-based access control (RBAC), or access reviews. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Describe your experience troubleshooting identity or authentication issues involving enterprise applications or Microsoft 365 services. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Describe your experience configuring and administering identity provider (IdP) solutions to provide single sign on (SSO) and Cross-domain identity management (SCIM) services. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Describe your experience coordinating vulnerability remediation activities, including identifying, prioritizing, tracking, or resolving security vulnerabilities affecting endpoints, identity services, or enterprise systems.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Describe your experience supporting cybersecurity audits, security assessments, or compliance activities. Include any security frameworks or standards you have worked with (e.g., NIST, CIS, CMMC, FISMA, or similar). Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Describe your experience monitoring or reporting cybersecurity metrics, such as vulnerability remediation, compliance status, security incidents, or risk management activities. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.