Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choices that describe your knowledge or experience with the Arms Export Control Act (AECA) and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR): Answer to this question is required I have knowledge acquired through education, training or self-instruction but have not applied it on the job. I have explained or interpreted the AECA and ITAR to governmental entities or industry whose activities are subject to the law and regulations. I have participated in discussions with persons and/or organizations whose licensing issues may / may not meet legal and regulatory requirements. I have analyzed information, documents or reports required of individuals or organizations engaged in regulated activities to assess their compliance. I have drafted reports, documents or other forms of assessment addressing potential or actual violations of the law and regulations. None of the above. 2 Which of the following statements BEST describes your experience with representing the U.S. Government (USG) international negotiations within the export controls regimes? Answer to this question is required I have occassionally represented the U.S. Government in international negotiations within the export controls regimes. I have regularly represented the U.S. Government in international negotiations within the export controls regimes. I am considered an expert in carrying out this task and I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors in unusually complex situations. I have represented the U.S. Government in international negotiations. I have an understanding of the process by which the U.S. Government is represented in the negotiations within the export control regimes. I have no experience negotiating within the international export controls regimes. 3 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving U.S. export licensing policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Examined and reviewed an export request and its support documentation. Developed recommendations for action on an export request. Prepared an export license request and support documentation. Provided authoritative guidance on U.S. law, regulations, policies and procedures as they relate to export licensing. Consulted intra / inter agency to obtain recommendations on an export request and resolved varying recommendations. Drafted or promulgated revised export licensing regulations, policies and procedures. Prepared and delivered training programs on export licensing. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best represents your level of experience developing and recommending policy? Answer to this question is required I have produced a technical or policy report that relayed the implications of findings to a larger context. I have analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue. I have produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results. I have collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue. None of the above. 5 Select the activities you have performed on the job involving U.S. export compliance policies or procedures: Answer to this question is required Monitored suspected or known violators to an export transaction. Conducted a review and assessment of parties to a proposed transaction to determine their `bona fides`. Conducted a review of a proposed transaction to verify end use. Prepared notifications of adverse compliance decisions on export requests or approvals. Researched and analyzed export requests to identify potential high risk transactions. Applied a `watch list` of suspected parties to an export request. Provided authoritative guidance on U.S. law, regulations, policies and procedures as they relate to export compliance. Consulted intra / inter agency to obtain recommendations on a compliance case and resolved varying recommendations. Drafted or promulgated revised compliance regulations, policies and procedures. Prepared and delivered training programs on export compliance. None of the above 6 Select the answer that BEST describes your knowledge of, or experience with, negotiating international agreements to control conventional weapons: Answer to this question is required I have advanced knowledge of, or experience with, negotiating international agreements to control conventional weapons related to five or more main aspects of arms control (i.e., the international and multilateral security system, the legal and regulatory framework related to conventional weapons, the policy process for negotiations, delegation and government outreach to industry, interagency coordination or other aspect). I have knowledge of, or experience with, negotiating international agreements to control conventional weapons related to three main aspects of conventional arms control (i.e., the international security system, the legal and regulatory framework related to conventional weapons, the policy process for negotiations or other aspect). I have some knowledge of, or experience with, at least one aspect of negotiating international agreements to control conventional weapons. I have no knowledge of, or experience with, implementation of negotiating international agreements to control conventional weapons. 7 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private organizations Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials None of the above 8 From the following list, please identify which sources you have used in preparing analyses/assessments. Answer to this question is required Policy documents Diplomatic communications Foreign Government documents U.S. Government documents Academic papers Conferences/symposia Interviews Press/public media Investigative reports Intelligence reports Books and journal articles Unpublished correspondence Internet None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.