Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess the ability to tactfully and effectively interact with people at many levels, both internal and external to the organization.&nbsp; Contacts are for the purpose of providing information, conducting studies, fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and give or receive guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations.&nbsp; Independently handles a variety of incoming calls, or refer callers to the appropriate party for assistance. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently researched and verbally responded to requests for information from staff, agency personnel, or the public; and/or I have reported and provided guidance to staff and others on and keyed time and attendances/payroll using appropriate transaction codes and procedures; and/or I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff in subordinate sections/field institutions regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have given formal training to staff; and/or I have, during a departmental meeting, trained staff on new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have directed inquiries requiring in-depth information to the appropriate staff within the region/office; and/or I have presented findings and recommended solutions to management official and others to improve administrative office functions. I have received, screened and forwarded telephone calls and visitors in an office where the nature of request/telephone calls were sensitive and required proper procedures to follow; and/or I have participated in a budget meeting to share financial information; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker and others regarding a special project; and/or I have attended a workforce utilization meeting. I have contributed information during informal meetings, gatherings, or discussions; and/or I have shared information with co-workers on a new process; and/or I have provided recurring information to callers; and/or I have provided employment information as a representative at a recruitment function or job fair; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers; and/or I have explained general regulations of procedures to the general public or employees. None of the above. 3 The Administrative Support Coordinator must be able to communicate in writing with people at all levels both internal and external to the agency regarding a variety of issues.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted.&nbsp; He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; Additionally, he/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for correctness; and/or I have monitored and proofed time sensitive responses ensuring deadlines are met and unusual circumstances are reported; and/or I have updated office procedures and guidelines to assist the work of others; and/or I have edited correspondence of others to ensure all correspondence is completed and adhered to by guidelines set forth by agency directives; and/or I have prepared various correspondence for upper level management’s review and signature; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. I have provided information and guidance to branch staff, management official and others regarding issues pertaining to special population management; and/or I have compiled, designed and prepared all handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared minutes in final format for executive level meeting; and/or I have reviewed and edited sensitive correspondence for conformance with regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have prepared workload status reports on all time sensitive correspondence received for review and signature; and/or I have established methods for accomplishing the work expeditiously to meet deadlines; and/or I have developed new office procedures to improve the workflow within the office. I have completed purchase request order forms; and/or I have prepared vacancy or training announcements; and/or I have assisted management in preparing summary reports from onsite reviews; and/or I have documented minutes at a staff meeting; and/or I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared a training agenda in order to disseminate course information to instructors and participants; and/or I have completed travel authorizations and/or vouchers; and/or I have completed a request for purchase; and/or I have written inter-office e-mails to provide guidance to staff. None of the above. 4 The Administrative Support Coordinator must be able to organize the workflow of the clerical and administrative support functions/personnel.&nbsp; He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgment, time planning and/or organizing workload.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations to supervisor concerning operational procedures regarding administrative support functions; and/or I have requested assistance in resolving conflict within the department; and/or I have assisted the supervisor in planning for future resources (i.e., office supplies, staffing and work assignment changes). I have organized a rotation of duties within the branch in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers; and/or I have organized telework and compressed work schedule requests for the office; and/or I have assisted co-worker with projects assigned by management in order to meet specific deadlines; and/or I have requested training for co-workers based on identified training needs with the department; and/or I have screened material prior to distribution for suspense dates establishing controls and following up. I have independently reviewed and assigned correspondence to the appropriate subject matter expert for response; and/or I have coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures to ensure all required information is received in a timely manner; and/or I have established and maintained a filing system; and/or I have reviewed all supporting documents for travel requests forwarded to the office for approval; and/or I have coordinated all mandatory training to ensure that all staff have completed required training. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including Microsoft Outlook, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft Excel, to be able to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data, and provide information for interpretations.&nbsp; He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected information and retrieved data from automated systems for various projects and reporting purposes; and/or I have utilized Microsoft Excel and other software applications to generate and maintain spreadsheet information for projects, reports and information submitted to upper management and Department of Justice; and/or I have utilized web-based systems to conduct informational searches; and/or I have developed and/or assisted with development of detailed and technical presentations for superior, using program software (i.e., Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Word in order for superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, executive staff, task/work groups); and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data to complete a project; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information; and/or I have utilized software programs to manage large amounts of information. I have entered, retrieved and generated reports from various data systems; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have updated and maintained agency internal web page; and/or I have scanned correspondence to agency offices or officials. I have researched information from various sources to complete non-standardized forms; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted documents and/or forms using a word processing application; and/or I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; merged files. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).