Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 GS-07: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your education as it relates to the basic eligibility requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. I have successfully completed 1 full academic year of graduate level education. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND have a grade-point average of "B" (3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND have a grade-point average of "B+" (3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of your undergraduate study. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND ranked in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university, or major subdivision. I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university AND are a member of a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. I do not meet the above education requirement described for this announcement. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you meet the criteria described above that defines you as a student? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Are you currently enrolled or formally accepted (with the intent to attend) for enrollment as a half-time or full-time student into an accredited high school, home school program, technical/vocational institution, college or university in a degree seeking program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I currently hold a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale. Answer to this question is required True False 4 What year will you be graduating from your academic program? Answer to this question is required Fall 2023 Spring 2024 Fall 2024 Spring 2025 Fall 2025 Spring 2026 Fall 2026 Spring 2027 Fall 2027 Spring 2028 Fall 2028 Spring 2029 Fall 2029 Spring 2030 Fall 2030 None of the above 5 Will you be at least 16 years of age by the closing date of this announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Are you able to work year-round in the specified location as advertised on the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.