Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Safety program with Executive Staff of the institution, as well as with Regional and Central Office staff on a regular basis.&nbsp; The Environmental and Safety Compliance Administrator also has frequent contact with the National Environmental &amp; Safety Compliance Branch.&nbsp; Contacts made by he/she also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, local fire departments, health departments, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Safety Council, and others.&nbsp; He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented national training programs to other agency safety professionals; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions on behalf of the organization to local emergency response teams such as the fire department, police department; and/or I have served as a resource person during national conferences or high profile presentations. I have conducted training sessions for institution staff during scheduled meeting such as Annual Training; and/or I have provided A&O to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have presented recommendations and implementation plan to upper management as a result of inspection findings. I have trained inmates in the proper mixture and application of various chemicals such as cleaning supplies; and/or I have presented occupational safety tips at an informal gathering; and/or I have provided verbal instructions to an inmate detail regarding the recycling program, or other safety related program. None of the above. 3 The Safety Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp; He/she are responsible for independently preparing comprehensive reports, memorandums and documenting inspections and their respective corrective actions.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for composing internal policies and procedures, and preparing correspondence related to Safety service needs and programs, such as responses to internal and external audits, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have responded to a safety related Cop-Out; and/or I have prepared justification for the purchase of updated safety apparatus. I have prepared and submitted monthly occupational safety and environmental health reports to the Warden or CEO; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information for Warden or CEO signature; and/or I have composed general memorandums to all staff regarding internal safety, environmental health, workers compensation or fire protection procedures; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. None of the above. 4 The Safety Administrator must effectively manage a variety of resources, including, but not limited to: financial, human resources, equipment, supplies, and ensuring compliance with governing rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained accurate inspection records in accordance to procedures; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper safety procedures for various work environments; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by others on safety related policy and procedures. I have gathered required documentation/information in order to perform safety inspections; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of local fire safety procedures; and/or I have coordinated a mock fire drill with all areas of the institution/facility. I have coordinated efforts with an injured employee and the Department of Labor, etc.; and/or I have ensured strict safety standards were adhered to; and/or I have assisted employees in identifying skills for improvements and provided recommendations for training; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a Safety related budget. None of the above. 5 The Safety Administrator must possess knowledge of safety program policies and procedures in order to effectively administer an occupational safety and environmental health program.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed current institution or local safety policy and recommended revisions; and/or I have submitted revisions to an environmental health requirement for a UNICOR product and/or equipment used in an institution or facility; and/or I have recognized a deficiency on a work detail and took appropriate corrective action. I have examined safety violations detected during inspections and reported them appropriately; and/or I have assisted in investigating staff and inmate injuries; and/or I have assisted with organizing training programs based on changes to regulations. I have implemented corrective actions for routine safety violations; and/or I have investigated staff and inmate injuries and determined appropriate action to be taken; and/or I have applied a variety of established safety related policies and procedures. None of the above. 6 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a Safety program within a correctional facility.&nbsp; He/she is also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required time-frames; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to lower level employees. I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have performed official mentor duties for newly hired employees; and/or I have counseled subordinates on qualified work issues. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of work detail safety talks; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to effectively establish and maintain contacts regarding the Safety Program with Executive Staff of the institution, as well as with Regional and Central Office staff on a regular basis. He/she also has frequent contact with the Occupational Safety &amp; Health Branch. Contacts made by the Safety Administrator also include vendors, suppliers, prospective vendors, other federal agency personnel, local fire departments, health departments, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Safety Council, and others. He/she also has frequent and direct contacts with the inmate population, and through these contacts, may impact the inmates&rsquo; attitude and behavior patterns. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided training/information on safety/environmental protection issues to local, state or federal safety professionals in a formal setting; and/or I have provided technical guidance and policy information; and/or I have assisted in the organization of correctional activities with officials from the U.S. Marshal’s Service; and/or I have led an institution team for ACA accreditation preparation. I have presented national training programs to other agency safety professionals; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions on behalf of the organization to local emergency response teams such as the fire department, police department; and/or I have worked as a resource person during national conferences or high profile presentations. I have conducted training sessions for institution staff during a scheduled meeting such as Annual Training; and/or I have provided A&O to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have presented recommendations and implementation plan to upper management as a result of inspection findings. None of the above. 3 The Safety Administrator must be able to produce written documents in a clear and concise manner. He/she is responsible for independently preparing comprehensive reports, memorandums and documenting inspections and their respective corrective actions. He/she is also responsible for composing internal policies and procedures, and preparing correspondence related to Safety service needs and programs, such as responses to internal and external audits, and responding to various requests for information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared inmate and employee injury reports; and/or I have prepared flyer for departmental staff advertising training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement or corrective action. I have prepared a report responding to OSHA compliance inspections; and/or I have maintained data and prepared and submitted required annual reports for institutional operational permits; and/or I have prepared and submitted to the appropriate authority a recommendation for code changes or interpretation of policy. I have prepared and submitted monthly occupational safety and environmental health reports to the Warden or CEO; and/or I have drafted a response to a request for information for Warden or CEO signature; and/or I have composed general memorandums to all staff regarding internal safety, environmental health, workers compensation or fire protection procedures; and/or I have participated in an Operational review or comparable external audit. None of the above. 4 The Safety Administrator must effectively manage a variety of resources, including, but not limited to: financial, human resources, equipment, supplies, and ensuring compliance with governing rules and regulations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated efforts with an injured employee and the Department of Labor, etc.; and/or I have ensured adherence to strict safety standards; and/or I have assisted employees in identifying skills for improvements and provided recommendations for training; and/or I have tracked expenditures for a segment of a Safety related budget. I have informally resolved conflicts among staff; and/or I have developed a Safety budget; and/or I have negotiated fire protection agreements with local fire departments; and/or I have tracked overall safety expenditures, reallocating funds as required. I have maintained accurate inspection records in accordance to procedures; and/or I have informed co-workers on the proper safety procedures for various work environments; and/or I have been sought out for guidance by others on safety related policy and procedures None of the above. 5 The Safety Administrator must possess knowledge of safety program policies and procedures in order to effectively administer an occupational safety and environmental health program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented corrective actions for routine safety violations; and/or I have investigates staff and inmate injuries and determined appropriate action to be taken; and/or I have applied a variety of established safety related policies and procedures. I have reviewed current institution or local safety policy and recommended revisions; and/or I have submitted revisions to an environmental health requirement for a UNICOR product and/or equipment used in an institution or facility; and/or I have recognized a deficiency on a work detail and took appropriate corrective action. I have interpreted applicable policies in conjunction with the Occupational Safety and Health Association (OSHA), the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), the Office of Workers Compensation Program (OWCP) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); and/or I have organized, developed and implemented training programs for staff and inmates based on changes or revisions to regulations; and/or I have monitored permit applications and construction activities to ensure compliance with regulatory and policy requirements; and/or I have networked with other agency personnel to discuss, interpret, apply and clarify technical, complex safety regulations. None of the above. 6 The Safety Administrator must possess the ability to supervise subordinate employees and delegate authority in order to effectively direct a Safety program within a correctional facility. He/she is also responsible for providing support, direction and guidance to subordinates to maximize their potential for success and career development. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prioritized workflow among available staff, making adjustments as necessary; and/or I have tracked workload of subordinates to assure completion and accuracy; and/or I have counseled subordinate on performance, providing guidance and monitoring for improvement; and/or I have coordinated due dates for projects. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have overseen the preparation and delivery of work detail safety talks; and/or I have provided instructions to subordinates regarding inmate discipline. I have monitored and prioritized established workflow of employees; and/or I have assured work of others is completed within required time-frames; and/or I have provided assistance and direction to lower level employees. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).