Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Deputy Chief of Staff prepares responses to written inquires received, and prepares for signature, select correspondence to Federal Judges, Public Defenders, United States Attorneys, United States Marshals, Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), Department of Justice (DOJ) staff, and other government officials on such matters as programs, institution assignments, and Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax, and format to effectively prepare/edit correspondence and papers for high-level use.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared draft articles for an agency newsletter and/or other publications; and/or I have written a memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have proofread and edited individual’s work prior to submission for final action or review. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws and regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high-level federal, state, local or international external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees. I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant of an internal/external audit. None of the above. 5 The Deputy Chief of Staff analyzes complex issues and identifies root causes of challenges.&nbsp;He/she develops clear and well-supported recommendations and can distinguish between urgent and important issues and prioritize them accordingly. The Deputy Chief of Staff assists in the resolution of management, operational, and administrative issues/problems. He/she analyzes management&rsquo;s needs, proposes the most effective strategies, and monitors implementation to evaluate the success or the need for modification.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have compiled and analyzed data or reports to identify trends or patterns for supervisor review; and/or I have conducted routine reviews of procedures to identify compliance gaps or inconsistencies; and/or I have prepared briefing materials or summaries of findings for review by senior staff; and/or I have monitored implementation of corrective actions and reported status to management. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed audits and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals. None of the above. 6 The Deputy Chief of Staff supervises subordinates which includes planning, organizing, reviewing work, and administering personnel matters. He/she evaluates work performance, identifies training needs, and recommends various personnel actions (i.e., awards/disciplinary). The Deputy Chief of Staff provides advice and counsel to employees, listens to and resolves complaints, and determines the material, equipment, and facilities needed for employees to perform the work assigned. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations or performance logs of subordinates; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have suggested subordinates pursue collateral duty assignments outside of their assigned discipline; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work productivity and increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a Mentoring Program for agency/organization; and/or I have developed and implemented a cross training program for employees in the department/section; and/or I have conducted training for the Mentoring Program for all supervisors in the department/section. I have combined a monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by a subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal Mentoring Program. None of the above. 7 The Deputy Chief of Staff coordinates efforts across senior leadership to ensure consistent messaging, planning and execution of initiatives. He/she cultivates and sustains productive working relationships with all levels of staff. The Deputy Chief of Staff maintains a close liaison with all Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) divisions and Regional Offices. He/she must possess the skills necessary to relate technical and non-technical information to others in a manner which is understood by targeted audiences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (i.e., management level/line staff); and/or I have provided timely and accurate information to an agency/organization Public Information Officer (PIO) for use in his/her response to news media sources and/or in public forums; and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated routine information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level. None of the above. 8 The Deputy Chief of Staff has awareness of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) mission, function and core values. He/she understands the current social and political climate and has knowledge of the Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) programs, policies and regulations. The Deputy Chief of Staff monitors and evaluates the external climate, including congressional committees, Department of Justice (DOJ) leadership, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and partner agencies and advocacy groups and advises leadership on how to navigate sensitive or high visibility matters. He/she serves as the Director&rsquo;s and Deputy Director&rsquo;s personal liaison with other governmental agencies (both state and federal), and Members of Congress and their staff, and therefore, must possess knowledge of the workings and policies which direct the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to advise and inform. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented a topic during Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have deliberated sanctions during a disciplinary committee meeting in a correctional environment; and/or I have reviewed policy and procedures and recommended changes regarding shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for an institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have reviewed evaluation reports to ensure compliance with evaluation policy and standards for internal and external audits; and/or I have participated on a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired an internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. None of the above. 9 The Deputy Chief of Staff communicates effectively with a variety of internal and external individuals ranging from agency Executive Staff and other Bureau of Prisons (BOP) staff, Members of Congress, and other high-level staff at Department of Justice (DOJ) agencies, and with local, state and international stakeholders within the government. He/she synthesizes complex incoming information and relays the information to others in a concise manner.&nbsp;The Deputy Chief of Staff responds to telephone inquiries received by the assigned office on such matters as programs, institution assignments and Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a workgroup which included members of upper management/Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with Members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have gave interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have gave formal presentations to the Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have gave formal presentations at job fairs, community events or vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have provided formal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to department heads, co-workers and peers. None of the above. Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-14 grade level, and will be at the GS-14 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-14 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-14 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-14 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-15 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-14 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-15 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-15, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-15 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-15 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-15 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-15, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-15, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-14 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-15 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-15 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under the special hiring authority for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Deputy Chief of Staff prepares responses to written inquires received, and prepares for signature, select correspondence to Federal Judges, Public Defenders, United States Attorneys, United States Marshals, Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), Department of Justice (DOJ) staff, and other government officials on such matters as programs, institution assignments, and Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy. He/she must possess comprehensive writing skills, along with an extensive command of proper grammar, syntax, and format to effectively prepare/edit correspondence and papers for high-level use.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have authored an article which was published in a national publication; and/or I have prepared national policy for an agency/organization based on changes in laws and regulations; and/or I have prepared a response to a regulatory agency which impacted/changed current laws and regulations; and/or I have designed and implemented a needs assessment plan for agency/organization staffing levels; and/or I have prepared briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency/organization on complex, technical issues or proposals having national impact. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws and regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high-level federal, state, local or international external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees. I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by co-workers/peers/subordinates; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant of an internal/external audit. None of the above. 5 The Deputy Chief of Staff analyzes complex issues and identifies root causes of challenges.&nbsp;He/she develops clear and well-supported recommendations and can distinguish between urgent and important issues and prioritize them accordingly. The Deputy Chief of Staff assists in the resolution of management, operational, and administrative issues/problems. He/she analyzes management&rsquo;s needs, proposes the most effective strategies, and monitors implementation to evaluate the success or the need for modification.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved programs; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have recommended methods to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed audits and ensured corrective action was initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals. None of the above. 6 The Deputy Chief of Staff supervises subordinates which includes planning, organizing, reviewing work, and administering personnel matters. He/she evaluates work performance, identifies training needs, and recommends various personnel actions (i.e., awards/disciplinary). The Deputy Chief of Staff provides advice and counsel to employees, listens to and resolves complaints, and determines the material, equipment, and facilities needed for employees to perform the work assigned. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided mentoring and coaching support to subordinates, including the development of appropriate training plans to address weaknesses; and/or I have effectively managed challenging personnel situations involving disciplinary action or Performance Improvement Plans (PIPs); and/or I have implemented a training program which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action/goals with subordinates to improve performance through formal training, concrete versus abstract milestones, and follow-up review sessions to ensure accountability. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work productivity and increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a Mentoring Program for agency/organization; and/or I have developed and implemented a cross training program for employees in the department/section; and/or I have conducted training for the Mentoring Program for all supervisors in the department/section. I have combined a monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by a subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and an existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored a subordinate through a formal Mentoring Program. I have developed organizational structure and defined staffing requirements for optimal performance of organization; and/or I have provided leadership training to staff at a national level; and/or I have developed incentive plans to recognize exceptional performance; and/or I have developed meaningful performance metrics to ensure accountability and organizational goals were met, while effectively assessing staff performance; and/or I have analyzed candidates for selection and provided sound recommendations for consideration by the selecting official. None of the above. 7 The Deputy Chief of Staff coordinates efforts across senior leadership to ensure consistent messaging, planning and execution of initiatives. He/she cultivates and sustains productive working relationships with all levels of staff. The Deputy Chief of Staff maintains a close liaison with all Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) divisions and Regional Offices. He/she must possess the skills necessary to relate technical and non-technical information to others in a manner which is understood by targeted audiences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (i.e., management level/line staff); and/or I have provided timely and accurate information to an agency/organization Public Information Officer (PIO) for use in his/her response to news media sources and/or in public forums; and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations. I have served as a spokesman or Public Information Officer (PIO) of a major agency or organization and provided timely, accurate, and appropriate responses to news media sources and/or in public forums; and/or I have responded to a major news organization request; and/or I have provided the agency/organization position to a Government commission; and/or I have as the agency/organization representative, expressed agency/organization policy or positions on legislative matters to the office of a Member of Congress; and/or I have provided the position of the agency/organization to an external constituency group known to draw media attention to its criticisms of the agency/organization. None of the above. 8 The Deputy Chief of Staff has awareness of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) mission, function and core values. He/she understands the current social and political climate and has knowledge of the Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (BOP) programs, policies and regulations. The Deputy Chief of Staff monitors and evaluates the external climate, including congressional committees, Department of Justice (DOJ) leadership, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and partner agencies and advocacy groups and advises leadership on how to navigate sensitive or high visibility matters. He/she serves as the Director&rsquo;s and Deputy Director&rsquo;s personal liaison with other governmental agencies (both state and federal), and Members of Congress and their staff, and therefore, must possess knowledge of the workings and policies which direct the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to advise and inform. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed program areas with agency program managers and recommended changes in policies/program directions in order to strengthen controls/correct deficiencies, and/or improve operational effectiveness; and/or I have directed comprehensive reviews of division operations and made recommendations to realign responsibilities; and/or I have chaired a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have developed pilot projects regarding operational or security issues; and/or I have performed duties as a supervisor/manager at more than one security level institution; and/or I have performed duties as an Administrator in the Central or Regional Office involved with policy development or oversight of institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for an institution; and/or I have activated an institution as a department head. I have reviewed evaluation reports to ensure compliance with evaluation policy and standards for internal and external audits; and/or I have participated on a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have chaired an internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have made recommendations to Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on procedural changes; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have chaired correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. None of the above. 9 The Deputy Chief of Staff communicates effectively with a variety of internal and external individuals ranging from agency Executive Staff and other Bureau of Prisons (BOP) staff, Members of Congress, and other high-level staff at Department of Justice (DOJ) agencies, and with local, state and international stakeholders within the government. He/she synthesizes complex incoming information and relays the information to others in a concise manner.&nbsp;The Deputy Chief of Staff responds to telephone inquiries received by the assigned office on such matters as programs, institution assignments and Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated on a workgroup which included members of upper management/Executive Staff in other agencies; and/or I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with Members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have gave interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have gave formal presentations to the Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have gave formal presentations at job fairs, community events or vendor fairs; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have presented an oral briefing during a congressional subcommittee meeting on issues having major organization/agency impact; and/or I have chaired workgroups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs and/or procedures; and/or I have facilitated a training session/presentation to department heads, co-workers and peers. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).