Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-9 level maintaining, fixing, installing, and inspecting lighting equipment in museums. Answer to this question is required True False 2 Do you have experience reading electrical drawings and diagrams? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following functions can you NOT perform? &nbsp; If multiple items apply, choose the one closest to the top of the list that you CANNOT perform. &nbsp; By selecting, you are indicating you CANNOT perform this work. &nbsp; If you CAN perform all functions, choose the last item. Answer to this question is required Work at heights up to 60 feet. Work on scaffolds Work on Personnel lifts Work indoors and outdoors. Climb a ladder. Lift and carry 50 pounds. I can perform ALL these functions 4 Are you available to work occasional weekend and evening overtime hours? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you used a computerized maintenance management system (CMMS) on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 From the responses below, select the statement that best describes your level of training and/or field experience in new construction and/or modification of electrical distribution systems, and controls in commercial or industrial installations. Answer to this question is required No formal electrical trade related classroom training. Completed a formal electrical trade related classroom training program. Performed as a supervisor or assistant supervisor on commercial and/or industrial electrical installations. Performed as a Journeyman level electrician on commercial and/or industrial electrical installations. Performed some electrician tasks under a higher level journeyman on commercial and/or industrial electrical installations. Assisted electrician’s, and served as a laborer or helper on commercial and/or industrial electrical installations. None of the above 7 From the responses below, select the tools you have Journeyman level experience using to perform electrical work (e.g. install, modify, repair, maintain, troubleshoot and/or test electrical distribution systems, controls and/or equipment in commercial or industrial installations). Answer to this question is required Side cutters Screwdrivers Hacksaw Engineering Drawings Needle nose pliers Tongue-and-groove pliers Diagonal cutting pliers Cable cutters Crimping Tools Conduit Benders Volt meters Ammeters Phase Rotation Meters Ohmmeters None of the above 8 Have you used a light meter as part of performing job tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you installed lighting around works of art in a gallery setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Do you have experience working with lighting products such as fixtures or dimmers? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Describe your experience using information from your r&eacute;sum&eacute; in a sentence or two that includes the brand, type and level of responsibility. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 From the responses below, select the types of Drawings/Wiring diagrams etc. you have experience modifying. Answer to this question is required Building Plans Blueprints Wiring Diagrams Engineering Diagrams Inspection reports and test deficiency reports of electrical equipment/systems None of the above 13 From the responses below, select the types of Drawings/Wiring diagrams etc. you have experience independently interpreting, planning and/or laying out from. Answer to this question is required Building Plans Blueprints Wiring Diagrams Engineering Diagrams Inspection reports and test deficiency reports of electrical equipment/systems None of the above 14 Have you installed lighting for a show/exhibition using surface or recessed fixtures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Have you installed lamps in a museum or theatre environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you installed lighting for special events or shows with time sensitive deadlines or other projects with these requirements? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Have you installed lighting in cases for exhibitions or events? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you work with light meters, gels, spread lenses? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Have you installed parts for LED, Solid state or low voltage fixtures? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.