Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you licensed to practice before the highest court of a state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia and in good standing? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 In which jurisdiction(s) are you a member of the bar? Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience: I have legal experience in leading collaborative efforts or coordinating the work of employees in a work unit, including assigning and evaluating work; setting priorities, timelines, and expectations; and monitoring progress against goals. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have experience as a practicing attorney in a banking or regulatory environment and demonstrated knowledge of administrative law, commercial law, and Federal and State banking laws, including knowledge of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and implementing regulations. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have experience in implementing requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act. &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required [ERROR rendering field] Yes No 6 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).