Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 With which equipment maintenance tasks have you assisted others? Answer to this question is required Assembled / disassembled a motor Adjusted pulley cables Adjusted door locks Greased equipment Cleaned trackwork or rails Adjusted roller guides None of the above 3 Which tools have you identified or used with assistance from a journeyman employee? Answer to this question is required Feeler gauge Channel locks Snap ring pliers Torque wrenches Cordless drills Insulated pliers None of the above Grade: 08 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which escalator equipment do you have experience installing or repairing? Answer to this question is required Chains for steps Handrail chains Chrome plate segments Demarcation line cleats None of the above 3 Do you have experience interpreting electrical codes to ensure the compliance of elevator wiring? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please describe your experience interpreting electrical codes to ensure the compliance of elevator wiring? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you have experience assisting others with elevator trouble shooting tasks (e.g., electrical wiring, motors)? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please describe your experience assisting others with elevator trouble shooting tasks (e.g., electrical wiring, motors)? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which equipment components have you installed or repaired? Answer to this question is required Switches Elevator buttons Door chains Door cables Drive chains Sprockets Rollers Axles None of the above 6 Which equipment have you operated to assist with elevator electrical system testing? Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohmmeters Signal generators Oscilloscopes Multimeter Megohmeter None of the above 7 Have you performed inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please describe your experience performing inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No Grade: 10 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience leveling elevators. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience leveling elevators. I have completed training on how to level elevators, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted a journeyman in leveling elevators. I have worked as a journeyman to level elevators. 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying elevator codes? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting or applying elevator codes. I reviewed elevator codes as directed by a senior employee or journeyman. I have interpreted and applied elevator codes to ensure compliance of elevator systems. 4 Which elevator tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Inspecting elevator machine rooms and elevators for compliance with ASME 17.1. Semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Overseeing contractors performing semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Preparing Statements of Work to repair elevators or escalators. None of the above. 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining elevator equipment (e.g., motors, electrical circuitry)? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical or electrical equipment. I have completed coursework related to mechanical or electrical equipment, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical or electrical equipment by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical or electrical elevator equipment (e.g., door openers, buttons). I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by troubleshooting electronic elevator systems. 6 Do you have experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please describe your experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Have you performed inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please describe your experience performing inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which elevator systems do you have experience trouble shooting? Answer to this question is required Electronic drives Computerized control systems Circuit boards Integrated systems Selector systems Load weighting systems Dispatching systems Security access systems None of the above Grade: 11 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience leveling elevators. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience leveling elevators. I have completed training on how to level elevators, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted a journeyman in leveling elevators. I have worked as a journeyman to level elevators. 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting and applying elevator codes? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience interpreting or applying elevator codes. I reviewed elevator codes as directed by a senior employee or journeyman. I have interpreted and applied elevator codes to ensure compliance of elevator systems. 4 Have you interpreted and applied equipment technical manuals to communicate actions taken with equipment manufacturers? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please describe your experience interpreting and applying equipment technical manuals to communicate actions taken with equipment manufacturers? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which elevator tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Inspecting elevator machine rooms and elevators for compliance with ASME 17.1. Semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Overseeing contractors performing semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Preparing Statements of Work to repair elevators or escalators. None of the above. 6 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining elevator equipment (e.g., motors, electrical circuitry)? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical or electrical equipment. I have completed coursework related to mechanical or electrical equipment, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical or electrical equipment by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical or electrical elevator equipment (e.g., door openers, buttons). I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by troubleshooting electronic elevator systems. 7 Do you have experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please describe your experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Have you performed inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please describe your experience performing inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Do you have experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which elevator systems do you have experience trouble shooting? Answer to this question is required Electronic drives Computerized control systems Circuit boards Integrated systems Selector systems Load weighting systems Dispatching systems Security access systems None of the above Grade: 12 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which response best describes your highest level of experience maintaining elevator equipment (e.g., motors, electrical circuitry)? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience maintaining mechanical or electrical equipment. I have completed coursework related to mechanical or electrical equipment, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted others with the maintenance of mechanical or electrical equipment by performing tasks with hands-on supervision or gathering tools needed. I have independently performed maintenance on mechanical or electrical elevator equipment (e.g., door openers, buttons). I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by examining equipment. I have independently determined the maintenance activities required for elevator systems by troubleshooting electronic elevator systems. 3 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience leveling elevators. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience leveling elevators. I have completed training on how to level elevators, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have assisted a journeyman in leveling elevators. I have worked as a journeyman to level elevators. 4 Which elevator tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Inspecting elevator machine rooms and elevators for compliance with ASME 17.1. Semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Overseeing contractors performing semi-annual and annual safety inspections. Preparing Statements of Work to repair elevators or escalators. None of the above. 5 Do you have experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please describe your experience reading and adhering to safety procedures while performing electrical, mechanical, or construction tasks. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Have you performed inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please describe your experience performing inspections on traction or hydraulic elevators? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Do you have experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining elevator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Do you have experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please describe your experience independently maintaining escalator equipment? Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Which elevator systems do you have experience trouble shooting? Answer to this question is required Electronic drives Computerized control systems Circuit boards Integrated systems Selector systems Load weighting systems Dispatching systems Security access systems None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How have you used a computer on the job? Answer to this question is required To look up equipment specifications To look up trouble shooting instructions To order equipment To summarize work completed None of the above 2 Which technical documents have you read and interpreted? Answer to this question is required Blueprints Wiring diagrams Trouble shooting sequences Fault readouts from servicing equipment Equipment technical specifications Electrical codes Elevator codes None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.