Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Supervised and managed a diverse workforce and, in doing so, performed the following activities: 1) planned/assigned work, 2) set/adjusted short-term work priorities, 3) established guidelines and performance expectations, 4) provided feedback and periodically evaluated employee performance, 5) heard and resolved complaints and grievances, 6) provided advice and counsel to workers related to assignments and administrative matters, 7) approved and disapproved leave requests, 8) identified developmental/training needs, 9) communicated organizational policies to staff, 10) found ways to improve production quality, and 11) created and fostered a culture encouraging diversity and high standards of ethics. Answer to this question is required Exercised a range of supervisory/lead personnel management responsibilities including AT LEAST NINE (9) of the above, including 1) – 3). Exercised a range of supervisory/lead personnel management responsibilities including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above, including 1) – 3). Exercised LIMITED supervisory/team lead personnel management responsibilities including: FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above, including 1) – 3). None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of library digital content management principles and best practices.** Applied knowledge of digital content management principles and best practices to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. Identified and implemented actions for development, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of digital content management and preservation programs. This includes: 1) overseeing digital content management projects and programs, 2) managing operations and continuous improvements to ensure access to digital collections, 3) creating tools/approaches to digital content management implementation of program strategies and goals, 4) identifying workflow improvements and tools/technologies for digital content management, 5) collaborating with others to establish best practices, 6) implementing new and streamlining existing digital workflows, 7) identifying digital content management problems, 8) proposing digital content solutions, and 9) addressing budget needs. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of digital content management in order to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. In doing so, performed SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above activities. Applied knowledge of digital content management in order to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. In doing so, performed SIX (6) of the above activities. Applied knowledge of digital content management in order to conduct and coordinate digital library projects and programs. In doing so, performed FIVE (5) of the above activities. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties.** Developed, established, and maintained professional relationships with staff across the organization and other digital content management communities to share resources, information, and professional knowledge related to digital content management. In doing so, 1) coordinated workflows, 2) performed project planning and policy development, and 3) facilitated and encouraged development and implementation of national best practices and standards for digital content management. Answer to this question is required Served as the primary liaison to various professional organizations and established relationships with other specialists to coordinate and share resources and information. Maintained close contact with project partners inside and outside of the organization regarding digital workflow management, the acquisition of digital files, and the development of workflow for archive growth. Presented information to groups and persons with various levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject areas. Including performing ALL of the above. Developed professional contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships. Presented and explained technical or specialized information to groups and persons inside and outside the organization with various levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject areas. Including performing TWO (2) of the above. Maintained professional contacts or cooperative work relationships with persons inside and outside the organization and presented information to groups and persons with a similar understanding of the subject. Including performing ONE (1) of the above. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to perform project development and management duties. Performed project planning and management duties to implement digital library projects. This includes, organizing, developing, and implementing complex projects involving the lifecycle management of digital content. In doing so: 1) served as project lead, 2) coordinated details involved in special projects, 3) defined tasks/assignments, 4) identified, developed, and implemented options for improving the performance of the plans/projects, 5) provided analysis, advised, and developed solutions to solve issues associated with digital lifecycle management project, 6) developed communications plans and project documentation, and 7) performed complex analyses on new or emergent projects. Answer to this question is required Served as a project manager for multiple library projects involving digital collections held by the institution. Performed ALL of the above activities. Served as a project manager for a library project involving digital collections held by the institution. Performed FIVE (5) OR SIX (6) of the activities above. Served as a project manager for a library project involving digital collections held by the institution. Performed at least FOUR (4) of the activities above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to research and analyze technical issues. Researched and analyzed issues related to standards and tools /technologies for the lifecycle management of digital content. This includes knowledge in research and analytical techniques relevant to digital content preservation lifecycle management, digital library trends, operations, and changing program requirements, identifying relevant issues, and referring them to management and making authoritative recommendations. Answer to this question is required Used a variety of methods to research, collect, and analyze best practices and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content. Used results of analysis to prepare written report(s) and presentations on digital projects or services. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to digital lifecycle management best practices and tools by following the literature; joining and being active in technical groups or organizations; attending conferences; and taking classes in the field. Used a variety of methods to research and collect information on best practices and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content for the purpose of providing it to managers for analysis. Stayed current in research and analytical techniques pertinent to digital content lifecycle management best practices and tools by following the literature; joining and being active in technical groups or organizations; attending conferences and/or taking classes in the field. Researched and analyzed information on best practices and tools for the lifecycle management of digital content under the guidance of supervisor or other senior co-workers for the purpose of providing it to others. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, and accurate understandable work products to management, staff, and others to support the objectives of an organization. These documents include: 1) project proposals, 2) annual and other necessary reports, 3) analytical reports, 4) policies and procedures, 5) program or initiative planning documents, 6) contract statements of work, 7) articles for publication, and 8) presentations on digital library topics. Answer to this question is required Independently prepared, reviewed, and revised documents relating to digital collections and metadata, including ALL of the above. Independently prepared, reviewed, and revised SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents relating to digital collections and metadata, including items 1), 2) and 3). Independently prepared, reviewed, and revised FIVE (5) of the above documents relating to digital collections and metadata, including items 1), 2) and 3) listed above. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).