Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to analyze, organize, plan, and carry out conservation/preservation programs in a library or similar institution. ** Organized and analyzed information to develop, plan, implement and evaluate a variety of conservation/preservation programs within a library or similar institution. This includes,1) leading teams to develop new preservation strategies, 2) gathering and analyzing information to address the preservation needs of collections and determining efficient and cost-effective methods to ensure usefulness of collections, and 3) leading teams to execute preservation plans and meet hard deadlines determined in concert with external departments. Answer to this question is required Analyzed and synthesized information relating to complex or obscure collection needs in order to develop, coordinate, and implement conservation/preservation strategies or solutions. This includes, performing ALL of the following activities listed above. Analyzed and synthesized information relating to collection needs in order to coordinate and implement conservation/preservation strategies or solutions. This includes, performing TWO (2) of the following activities listed above. Analyzed and organized information relating to collection needs in order to implement conservation/preservation strategies or solutions. This includes, performing ONE (1) of the following activities listed above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. ** Carried out consultation and liaison activities to provide and share information with persons inside and outside an organization. In doing so, 1) represented the organization at public events, providing insight into preservation activities, 2) engaged in public outreach activities such as leading tours and providing demonstrations, 3) developed content for the organization&rsquo;s web presence and other educational materials. Answer to this question is required Developed contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships, recommended changes in procedures or workflows and explained information to groups and individuals with varying levels of understanding or knowledge of conservation and preservation and other relevant fields. Served as a representative/liaison for an organization at conferences and/or meetings regarding preservation/conservation. Developed contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships, recommended changes in procedures or workflows to others and explained information to groups and/or individuals with varying levels of understanding or knowledge of conservation/preservation and/or other relevant fields. Developed contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships, recommended changes in procedures or workflows to others, and explained technical information to individuals or groups with varying levels of understanding or knowledge. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of conservation/preservation.&nbsp; &nbsp;Applied professional knowledge of conservation/preservation principles, concepts, and techniques to manage library functions and carry out library programs. Answer to this question is required Implemented and improved procedures for the assessment and conservation/preservation of collections containing one or more formats. Developed specialized approaches for the surveying of collections and/or treatment of collections containing complex formats, demonstrating knowledge of the specialized principles, concepts and techniques of conservation/preservation applied to unique large-scale library programs. Implemented and improved procedures for the conservation/preservation of collections containing one or more formats demonstrating knowledge of the specialized principles, concepts and techniques of conservation/preservation applied to library programs. Implemented technical recommendations for the treatment of collection materials, demonstrating an understanding of standards, concepts and techniques of conservation/preservation applied to library programs. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote, reviewed, and edited a variety of professional/technical documents related to conservation or preservation actions, including: 1) condition assessment or survey reports, 2) memoranda and other correspondence, 3) conservation or preservation plans (including examination and condition reports, treatment proposals, and treatment reports), 4) collection analysis and research results, 5) policies and procedures in the area of preservation or conservation, 6) detailed reports on project outcomes, preservation efforts, and data analysis, 7) research findings for publication, contributing to the professional conservation community. Answer to this question is required Wrote and edited professional/technical documents including ALL of the above. Wrote and edited professional/technical documents including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. Wrote and edited professional/technical documents including FOUR (4) of the above. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide training. Provided training and instruction on conservation and preservation principles and techniques. In doing so, 1) developed workshops and provided training for staff, interns, and/or external conservation or library professionals, 2) developed and delivered training programs, plans, manuals, web pages, or instructional aids, 3) designed course content, materials, and techniques, 4) conducted orientation and training, 5) provided information about preservation and conservation by supporting laboratory tours, giving demonstrations, and answering inquiries, and 6) presented information through different means including professional conferences, research journals, workshops, or online media. Answer to this question is required Conducted training and developed training plans, teaching others how to perform library tasks related to area of expertise. This includes performing ALL of the ABOVE activities. Conducted training and developed training plans, teaching others how to perform library tasks related to area of expertise. This includes performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Conducted informal training and developed training plans, teaching others how to perform library tasks related to area of expertise. This includes performing TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).