Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 List the title of each license/certification you hold and the date each was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules Lead daily meetings Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Provided feedback on tasks completed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Monitored performance for unsafe practices None of the above 4 Which industrial trucks/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet jacks Hand trucks Flatbed trucks Table trucks Chair dollies None of the above 5 Do you have experience independently performing the tasks of a material handler, including the storage, delivery, and set up of furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment. I have performed storage, delivery, and set up activities for furniture and equipment as an apprentice or under close supervision. I have independently stored, delivered, and set up furniture and equipment. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques to store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment. 7 Do you have experience organizing furniture and equipment in storage spaces to easily locate and move items when needed? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers while moving materials or cleaning areas. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about moving or cleaning procedures. I have explained moving or cleaning procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 9 Which tools or equipment have you used to move large or heavy items? Answer to this question is required Sliders Electrical fork lift Pallet jack Hand jack Manual dollies None of the above 10 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 11 Do you have experience issuing and receiving goods and materials in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Select the specialty materials/items you have moved without causing damage. Answer to this question is required Antiques/historical artifacts (e.g., furniture, paintings) Construction material (e.g., tools, parts) Hazardous material (e.g., asbestos, mercury) High-valued items (e.g., precision instruments) None of the above 13 Which statements describe your experience using automated equipment (e.g., optical scanner, computer) to perform warehouse inventory tasks? Answer to this question is required I have accessed inventory information using automated equipment. I have loaded inventory data into database systems using scanners and/or keyboards. I have identified and corrected errors in inventory database systems. None of the above 14 Do you have experience lifting, carrying, and/or moving objects weighing up to 50 lbs? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Have you identified safety issues and concerns? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 16 Select the topics in which you have completed safety training. Answer to this question is required Forklift operation Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Proper lifting techniques Hazard awareness Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response Standard (Hazwoper) None of the above 17 Select the personal protective equipment (PPE) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Goggles Gloves Safety shoes None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.