Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The FSA Programs Coordinator communicates with staff from institutions and Regional Offices on issues related to First Step Act (FSA) programming, needs assessments and incentives. He/she also communicates with U.S. District Courts, U.S. Probation Offices, state agencies and institutions, U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. Marshals Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and various other agencies and divisions of the Department of Justice regarding a wide range of First Step Act (FSA) related activities. He/she provides national directives to staff pertaining to the management of inmates committed under the care of the Federal Prisons System. He/she responds to inquiries regarding incentive implementation and resolves routine operational issues. He/she participates in workgroups and meetings related to First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessment processes. From the choices below, please select the one that describes your experience. I have provided routine responses to field inquiries regarding First Step Act (FSA) incentive implementation and program guidance; and/or I have participated in team meetings to discuss programming issues; and/or I have delivered standard training content on First Step Act (FSA) program components to small groups of staff, following established presentation materials and guidelines; and/or I have communicated basic program information and procedural updates to institutional contacts, ensuring accurate transmission of guidance from leadership; and/or I have responded to straightforward questions about First Step Act (FSA) program eligibility and documentation requirements. I have delivered complex oral presentations to senior leadership and external stakeholders on nationwide program implementation, statutory requirements, and policy recommendations; and/or I have led multi-agency conference calls and meetings to coordinate implementation strategies, facilitating consensus among various stakeholders with competing interests and priorities; and/or I have articulated nuanced policy interpretations and technical guidance to field staff during national training sessions. I have responded to challenging questions from internal/external agency representatives regarding First Step Act (FSA) program issues; and/or I have conducted briefings for senior leadership on First Step Act (FSA) program trends, compliance issues, and recommendations for corrective actions. I have presented First Step Act (FSA) program updates and implementation guidance to others through teleconferences and training sessions; and/or I have participated in workgroup meetings related to First Step Act (FSA) time credits and risk assessment processes, contributing ideas and responding to questions; and/or I have communicated policy guidance and operational instructions to field staff explaining eligibility requirements and application standards; and/or I have explained First Step Act (FSA) needs assessment processes and incentive requirements to staff, using examples and analogies to enhance comprehension; and/or I have contributed to case management discussions regarding program suitability. None of the above. 5 The FSA Programs Coordinator assists in drafting and revising program guidance, operational instructions, and reference materials related to First Step Act (FSA) programming and incentives. He/she writes general correspondence, reports, operational procedures and other documents. &nbsp; The FSA Programs Coordinator must be able to communicate effectively in writing to provide support guidance to Bureau of Prisons staff nationwide. From the choices below, please select the one that describes your experience. I have prepared program guidance updates and implementation instructions for regional and institutional staff, explaining eligibility requirements, procedural changes, and application standards; and/or I have written summaries and reports on First Step Act (FSA) program data, compliance assessments, and field feedback that identified trends, gaps, and risks for review by supervisor; and/or I have developed training materials and job aids supporting First Step Act (FSA) related training delivery; and/or I have drafted routine correspondence responding to field inquiries on First Step Act (FSA) incentive implementation and needs assessment processes; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes, action items, and status reports from workgroup sessions; and/or I have written case summaries for parole or release planning purposes; and/or I have drafted standard operating procedures for program enrollment processes. I have written routine email responses to field staff inquiries regarding standard First Step Act (FSA) program eligibility requirements and documentation procedures, following established templates and guidance; and/or I have prepared basic program summaries and status updates on assigned First Step Act (FSA) activities for supervisor review while organizing information; and/or I have documented field feedback and operational concerns from institutional contacts in written format for review and action by senior staff; and/or I have drafted procedural documentation and reference materials on routine First Step Act (FSA) program processes, ensuring technical accuracy and proper formatting; and/or I have compiled and organized written reports and data submissions from field locations, proofreading for completeness and basic accuracy before forwarding to appropriate staff. I have drafted comprehensive national policy guidance and program statements on First Step Act (FSA) programming and incentives for Bureau-wide dissemination; and/or I have prepared executive-level briefing materials, reports, and recommendations for senior leadership on program effectiveness, compliance trends, and strategic initiatives requiring decision-making authority; and/or I have authored complex technical memoranda interpreting statutory requirements and regulatory guidance for field application, anticipating implementation challenges and providing clear direction to resolve ambiguities. I have developed detailed operational instructions and reference materials for nationwide use that translated complex policy into practical, field-ready guidance for varied environments; and/or I have written position papers and responses to external agencies on First Step Act (FSA) related matters; and/or I have developed process improvement recommendations to enhance needs assessment. None of the above. 6 The FSA Programs Coordinator supports coordination with other Central Office components, to include the Reentry Services Division (RSD), legal, and information systems offices to ensure policy and operational alignment and to support effective First Step Act (FSA) programming implementation. He/she must have a thorough knowledge of federal correctional operations, inmate management, and institutional programming. The FSA Programs Coordinator must have knowledge of the variety of institutions, inmate populations and problems presented by the various combinations to direct and evaluate operating programs in the field. From the choices below, please select the one that describes your experience. I have navigated complex organizational and political dynamics involving senior leadership, Regional Offices, Congress, Department of Justice, federal courts, and external criminal justice agencies to advance First Step Act (FSA) program implementation while protecting agency interests and mission priorities; and/or I have identified optimal channels for resolving systemic implementation challenges and securing necessary support and resources; and/or I have coordinated with other divisions on cross-functional initiatives affecting inmate programming. I have coordinated with appropriate departments when program issues arose; and/or I have communicated through proper channels on program-related matters; and/or I have considered security levels when recommending program placements; and/or I have ensured program assignments were consistent with individual case management plans; and/or I have supported institutional accreditation efforts through compliant program operations. I have demonstrated familiarity with key agency policies and procedures that govern First Step (FSA) programming, including needs assessments, incentive administration, and evidence-based recidivism reduction programs; and/or I have escalated complex issues on First Step Act (FSA) programming to supervisor and coordinated with regional and institutional contacts; and/or I have followed established agency procedures, protocols, and standards when responding to field inquiries and providing First Step Act (FSA) program guidance, ensuring consistency with organizational policies and practices. I have leveraged regional resources to support institutional training needs; and/or I have considered security staffing limitations when establishing program capacity targets; and/or I have accounted for facility physical plant limitations in program space allocation; and/or I have coordinated with others on identifying appropriate program assignments; and/or I have aligned First Step Act (FSA) program standards with accreditation requirements. None of the above. 7 The FSA Programs Coordinator provides direction in the monitoring and evaluation of the First Step Act (FSA) through the formation of policy guidelines and training. He/she collects, reviews and analyzes First Step Act (FSA) program data and reports to assess compliance, participation, and program effectiveness. From the choices below, please select the one that describes your experience. I have organized daily work activities to respond to routine field inquiries, process standard First Step (FSA) program requests, and complete assigned tasks within established timeframes; and/or I have tracked and monitored submission of required program reports from institutions, following up on missing information and ensuring data completeness before forwarding to senior staff. I have developed strategic plans for nationwide rollout of new First Step Act (FSA) initiatives and policy changes, determining implementation timelines, resource requirements, and coordination strategies across the agency; and/or I have designed and implemented comprehensive evaluation frameworks to assess program effectiveness, compliance, and impact on inmate participation, recidivism reduction, and public safety outcomes across the agency; and/or I have established Bureau-wide performance metrics and monitoring systems for First Step Act (FSA) needs assessments, incentive administration, and time credit eligibility, ensuring alignment with statutory requirements and operational goals. I have reviewed field-submitted documentation for compliance with basic eligibility requirements and procedural standards, identifying errors or omissions for correction; and/or I have collected and organized First Step Act (FSA) program data, field feedback, and compliance information from multiple sources, preparing materials for analysis and evaluation by senior staff; and/or I have monitored progress on assigned program tasks and activities, maintaining tracking systems and providing status updates to supervisor on completion milestones. I have organized work priorities and coordinated activities to support nationwide needs assessment processes, ensuring timely completion of assessment reviews and consistent application of standards across institutions; and/or I have monitored First Step Act (FSA) incentive administration across regions by tracking institutional compliance, reviewing field feedback, and identifying operational challenges that affect consistent implementation. I have conducted analysis of program data from multiple sources to identify systemic trends, compliance gaps, and operational risks, developing evidence-based recommendations for program improvements and corrective actions; and/or I have coordinated long-term strategic planning efforts with other offices (i.e., Reentry Services Division, legal and information systems) to ensure integrated First Step Act (FSA) program development and resource optimization across components; and/or I have assessed quality and accuracy of risk assessment administration across multiple institutions. I have evaluated program data and compliance reports to assess participation rates, identify inconsistencies or operational concerns, and prepare summaries highlighting areas requiring attention; and/or I have developed recommendations to improve assessment processes and operational alignment based on analysis of field feedback, compliance issues, and program effectiveness data; and/or I have coordinated with others to plan First Step Act (FSA) related training; and/or I have planned curriculum delivery sequences for evidence-based programs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).