Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Candidates must be a Commissioned Risk Examiner in the FDIC or another organization with comparable commissioning criteria used by the FDIC&rsquo;s Division of Risk Management Supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please provide the year of your commissioning. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 1: I have leadership experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector leading and coordinating cyber, fraud, and financial crimes projects, collaborating with stakeholders and personnel, determining and assigning tasks and roles, evaluating results of work in project success, providing feedback and facilitating the completion of product(s). &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 2: &nbsp; I have leadership experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector coordinating the work of employees in a work unit, including assigning and evaluating work; setting priorities, timelines, and expectations; and monitoring progress against goals.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 1: &nbsp;I have technical experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector developing regulatory policy, guidance, examination resources, and training related to financial crimes, cyber-related fraud; providing Regional Office staff and examiners assistance and guidance on matters related to the examination process and investigations; and analyzing and sharing financial sector threats and vulnerabilities. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 2: &nbsp;I have technical experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector contributing to the establishment of regulatory policies, guidance, supervisory programs, examiner training, and outreach to the banking industry and public related to AML/CFT requirements. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 6 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience 3: I have technical experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector working as part of interagency groups to develop consistent interagency programs for combating financial institution fraud or other financial crimes.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 List the position titles for each position held that support your response to meeting the minimum qualifications experience. Please make sure your resume adequately describes and supports your job responsibilities for each position listed that describes your experience. &nbsp; &nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 To meet the eligibility requirements for this vacancy announcement, you must provide the applicable supporting documentation to prove Competitive Service Status as outlined in the &lsquo;Required Documents&rsquo; section of this announcement. Failure to provide all of the required and applicable documentation as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible determination or may affect your consideration status. Multiple documents may be necessary to verify eligibility. Does your application package include the applicable supporting documentation? If unsure, please email the contact the person listed on this job opportunity announcement before the closing date. Unfortunately, we are unable to accept any supporting documents to determine your eligibility after the closing date. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Current or Former Career SES members you may be required to provide additional documentation&nbsp; &nbsp; The FDIC Corporate Experts, Executive and Corporate Managers (i.e., CX, EM, and CM) are in the Federal competitive service and not in the Senior Executive Service (SES).&nbsp; &nbsp; SES members must submit multiple SF-50s that show (1) current or former career SES appointment, and (2) proof of a career or career-conditional tenure (codes 1 or 2, in block 24); and position occupied in the competitive service (code 1, in block 34). &nbsp; SES members without competitive service career status are eligible to use any other applicable special appointing authorities.&nbsp; &nbsp; Failure to provide all the required and applicable eligibility documentation as stated in this JOA&rsquo;s &ldquo;Required Documents&rdquo; section may result in an ineligible determination affecting your status consideration. &nbsp; &nbsp; Does your application package include the applicable eligibility documentation? Please e-mail JOA contact person if unsure. Answer to this question is required Yes No Not Applicable (N/A) Overview of the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Please provide a response of up to 1300 characters (approximately 200 words) for each question.&nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;The FDIC prohibits consideration of characteristics unrelated to the job. Do not include information related to Race, Ethnicity, Sex, Religion, Disability, Height &amp; Weight, Sex, Marital/Familial status (e.g., marital, parental, pregnancy) or Political Affiliation in your written responses. 9 Short Essay Question 1: How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 10 Short Essay Question 2: In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 11 Short Essay Question 3: How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words) to each question.&lt;/strong&gt; 12 Short Essay Question 4: How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?&nbsp; Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1300 characters. &lt;strong&gt;Please provide a response of up to 1,300 characters (approximately 200 words).&lt;/strong&gt; 13 Certification for the Four (4) Short Essay Questions: I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Yes No 14 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).