Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have one year of specialized experience as a GS-11 being responsible for coordinating the collection and dispersal of works of art, monitoring the location, condition, safety, and movement of these works of art, and maintaining and updating the records? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I am available for travel to locations outside the United States. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Have you been responsible for distinguishing among artists' work, simply based on the appearance of the work? An example would be looking at three paintings, and making a determination (without additional information) which one was by Monet, which by Zhang Zeduan, and which by Raphael. Experience can refer to either an academic or work environment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Indicate those personnel with whom you have interacted, on a regular basis, as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Shipping agents Insurance agents Risk managers Legal counsel Conservators Curators Other museum professionals Transportation and crating companies None of these kinds of personnel 5 Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience processing art loans for a museum. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task 6 Do you have at least three years of experience in a registrar or loan manager role at a museum? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience using the official loan management standards established by the American Association of Museums? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following job titles (or their equivalents) is shown on your resume? If more than one applies, choose the one closest to the top of the list that is still accurate. Answer to this question is required Registrar Exhibition officer Exhibition specialist Curatorial assistant Museum technician None of these job titles, or their equivalents 9 Complete the following sentence accurately: I have applied knowledge in the physical properties of, proper storage conditions for, and handling procedures for: Answer to this question is required Paintings Prints Drawings Photographs Sculpture Time-based media art Decorative arts Other media not mentioned here None of the above media 10 Indicate those personnel with whom you have interacted, on a regular basis, as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Museum executives Museum trustees Government officials Art handlers Security officers Museum design and installation staff None of these 11 Complete the following sentence accurately: I have _________________ loans of fine art to/from my organization. Answer to this question is required negotiated processed overseen not been involved in these ways, in 12 Which of the following best describes your experience working with institutions of museum-quality art objects? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have worked with public and private borrowers and institutions, both in the US and abroad, and made packing, shipping and courier arrangements for major travelling exhibitions. I have worked with public and private borrowers and institutions, both in the US and abroad, and made packing, shipping and courier arrangements for exhibitions. I have worked with public and private borrowers and institutions within in the US and made packing, shipping and courier arrangements for exhibitions and loans. I have helped registrars make packing, shipping, and courier arrangements, but have not contacted borrowers directly. None of the above. 13 I have completed at least 24 credit hours of college coursework in art history or studio art. Answer to this question is required True False 14 Do you have experience developing fine arts loan agreements/contracts, and reviewing them for compliance with best practices and protocol? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Have you had experience reviewing fine arts insurance policies to determine coverage and exclusions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Have you had experience developing or applying for government indemnity policies to determine coverage and exclusions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Do you have experience reviewing artwork loan agreements/contracts for specific details? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you had experience reviewing artwork insurance policies to determine coverage and exclusions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Have you reviewed a museum facility report to learn key information about museum features and conditions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Have you requested and reviewed applications for Immunity from Judicial Seizure of cultural objects, related to property ownership claims? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Choose the application(s) that you can use proficiently at this time, if any. "Proficient" means that you can use the software daily, to complete a wide variety of tasks, with only occasional consultations of peers, supervisors, or reference manuals. Answer to this question is required Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Visio Microsoft Access Microsoft Project Other applications not listed here None of the above applications 22 Choose the museum collection management application(s) you have experience using for a week or more. Answer to this question is required MIMSY EMu The Museum System (TMS) None of these applications 23 Describe your level of experience communicating with senior executives and high ranking officials or corporate officers in a variety of ways, on a consistent basis, to create positive working relationships. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 24 Select all of the responses that describe your experience over the past two years. Answer to this question is required Anticipated the need for a program or project and made recommendations to management on its development and implementation Led a project or group with little or no supervision or guidance. Took initiative to identify and improve a major work process or procedure. Encouraged or sought the involvement or participation of others in a group or activity. Led a project team or work group to ensure achievement of goals. Volunteered for a special project None of the above. 25 Complete the following statement accurately, using the experience reflected in your resume: "I have provided liaison between an organization and _____________." Answer to this question is required staff from an embassy a college or university alumni group museum staff affinity groups or social clubs fundraising organizations corporate executives other groups not listed here I have not provided liaison in the manner described here. 26 Complete the following statement to accurately reflect your professional background. "I have been responsible for working with _______________ on a daily basis." Answer to this question is required high-level U.S. government figures heads of state foreign ministers senior business executives other VIPs not listed here none of the above people 27 Select the statement(s) that most accurately describe your experience with correspondence. Answer to this question is required I have prepared (formatted and printed) correspondence for final management approval. I have reviewed correspondence for accuracy, clarity, completeness and consistency with regulations and procedures, as well as made edits and rewrites, when necessary. I have drafted and edited correspondence. I have reviewed and processed incoming/outgoing correspondence for the signature of senior personnel making sure of proper clearances and approvals of other offices. None of these statements accurately describes my experience. 28 Have you prepared a budget for packing and shipping services for works of art to travel as a loan or in an exhibition? Answer to this question is required Yes No 29 Have you negotiated the loan of a group of over 10 art objects, in a traveling exhibition? Answer "yes" only if that traveling exhibition visited 2 or more venues. Answer to this question is required Yes No 30 Indicate those personnel with whom you have experience working with on a regular basis as part of your job. Answer to this question is required Shipping agents Insurance agents Risk managers Legal counsel Conservators Curators Other museum professionals Transportation companies None of these kinds of personnel 31 Which of the following duties have you performed or overseen for loans and exhibitions. &nbsp; Check all that apply &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Handling and movement Loan transactions Shipping Crating Installation Deinstallation Documentation Condition Reporting None of the above 32 Which of the following best describes your experience in the preparation of artworks and/or museum objects for storage and transportation? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have handled museum objects by determining crate design and selection, object display, condition reporting, installation and deinstallation, and object transportation. I have formal training equivalent to graduate level in art, curatorial studies, or collection management. I have arranged the delivery of artwork and objects by packing artwork and collections so that pieces are not damaged by temperature or humidity I have assisted museum staff in handling and packing museum objects for shipment I have not done any of the above tasks 33 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and maintaining registration files? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have maintained a computerized system consisting of an accession register, computerized catalogue and index files, and loan agreements of museum objects. I have set up a basic manual documentation system for a museum consisting of accessions, card catalogues, location system, loan agreements, and filing systems. I have assisted Museum personnel in maintaining registration in a file cabinet or electronically controlled I have not done any of the above tasks. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.