Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Senior Human Resource Specialists consult with staff, brief upper level management officials, individuals from other governmental agencies and the general public. These contacts are required for conducting studies, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, report information, improve operations, and/or make or justify procedural changes which impact operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided briefings during department head/management meetings; and/or I have provided presentations to management officials at various levels concerning analytical findings; and/or I have represented the agency in a community event; and/or I have instructed departmental staff regarding new policies/procedures; and/or I have provided training to peers and/or subordinates. I have advised management officials regarding trends based upon statistical/empirical figures; and/or I have provided interpretation/clarification of program compliance issues and formulated and communicated corrective action which was adopted at a National/Agency level. I have justified recommendations for new administrative procedures to be used within a complex Human Resource operation; and/or I have participated on an Agency or Inter-Agency workgroup; and/or I have justified proposed changes to superiors which altered National programs or operations. I have instructed a class during Institution Familiarization or Annual Training or other initial orientation programs; and/or I have provided non-technical information during a staff meeting; and/or I have answered basic inquiries from outside sources; and/or I have provided status updates regarding special projects during department meetings. None of the above. 5 Senior Human Resource Specialists develop checklists, submit study summaries, propose changes to operating procedures and reports for utilization both within and external to the organization. They are independently responsible for creating reports, updating procedural guides,&nbsp;and authoring proposals or recommendations on existing or proposed policies, procedures, or systems. They must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written technical reports for informational purposes to subordinates and peers; and/or I have updated internal operational procedures; and/or I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have responded to congressional inquiries. I have developed/drafted technical policies for agency/organizational use; and/or I have prepared technical reports for a supervisor from historical data; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to justify an operational decision or change to current policy/procedure; and/or I have prepared surveys and provided written recommendations to improve operational procedures. I have written correspondence using preexisting examples; and/or I have provided written non-technical reports to subordinates and peers; and/or I have recorded minutes at a departmental meeting; and/or I have prepared responses for supervisory distribution. None of the above. 6 Senior Human Resource Specialists must have the ability to apply software application knowledge to organize and evaluate staffing data. They must be skilled in extracting complex data, creating spreadsheets, charts, and graphs used to facilitate the presentation of statistical data and analysis relative to the organizational goals of the Consolidated Staffing Unit. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized and corrected data deficiencies; and/or I have retrieved technical information from a computer to create spreadsheets; and/or I have created charts and/or graphs representing information contained on a spreadsheet; and/or I have trained a person in the use of computer software applications; and/or I have used MS PowerPoint for presentations to upper level management officials. I have developed technical documentation such as systems designs, user guides, and/or flow diagrams; and/or I have developed software presentations to help identify and focus on areas that required top management attention; and/or I have developed and managed databases which allowed for the input, maintenance and retrieval of information regarding effectiveness of organizational activities; and/or I have extracted and evaluated data to produce analytical reports. I have used computer software applications to accomplish tasks; and/or I have entered technical data on an existing spreadsheet; and/or I have evaluated and created a report from the information on an existing spreadsheet. None of the above. 7 Senior Human Resource Specialists must have expert knowledge of human resource management staffing&nbsp; and placement functions, regulations, to include regulations and legal entitlements of veterans. Knowledge may have been gained in staffing and placement, recruitment, or in another position directly involved in the administration of competitive examining. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised or made recommendations to improve operational processes; and/or I have reviewed identified issues and provided alternate solutions; and/or I have served as part of a group or team to review processes and methods and make recommendations; and/or I have corrected complex pay issues. I have conducted studies resulting in increased productivity in a staffing and placement; and/or I have conducted manpower analysis resulting in staffing changes; and/or I have researched and resolved complex human resource issues to satisfy inquiries from outside the agency; and/or I have processed employment waiver justifications for the Regional Director's signature. I have provided training on Delegated Examining Unit (DEU) procedures and reviewed relevant files; and/or I have conducted desk audits or classified positions covered under multiple occupational series; and/or I have compiled studies that impacted recruitment and retention within an organizational component; and/or I have advised agency officials or assisted agency officials in improving personnel systems. I have answered routine questions concerning pay, promotional entitlement, Within Grade Increases (WGI); and/or I have explained employment application procedures to others; and/or I have reviewed human resource inquiries for management officials. None of the above. 8 Senior Human Resource Specialists use a variety of management processes, HR Metrics, guidelines and procedures, electronic data systems and statistical data in order to develop more effective systems, policies or procedures and improve management functions, practices and services. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared technical reports and presented findings; and/or I have participated in a program review/audit/staff assistance review and recommended changes or improvements; and/or I have gathered information and analyzed results; and/or I have conducted statistical analysis on information maintained in logs or database systems. I have reviewed quality improvement programs for effectiveness and recommended changes to enhance review methods; and/or I have identified strengths and weaknesses of recruitment plans and recommended methods of improvement; and/or I have collected and analyzed technical reports and presented findings. I have conducted a research project which involved objective data collection, analysis, and the presentations of suggestions for future analysis; and/or I have identified sources of existing program outcomes in personnel systems and provided recommendations for improvement; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed data and personnel reporting systems and made recommendations to improve internal processes or quality control methods. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used automated systems to analyze statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding; and/or I have analyzed results of program review data and developed trend or deficiency reports. I have conducted analytical studies and provided justifications to support an operational position; and/or I have conducted analysis resulting in a significant change in operations; and/or I have improved or streamlined procedures through program examination; and/or I have identified policy affects on operations or costs of program management. I have prepared and updated utilization and/or status reports; and/or I have made recommendations for data collection methods; and/or I have assisted in collecting and analyzing information used to conduct statistical studies; and/or I have identified strengths and weaknesses of a recruitment plan and recommended methods of improvement; and/or I have examined budgetary figures and recommended changes to staffing patterns; and/or I have analyzed routing procedures and recommended changes to improve timeliness. None of the above. 9 Senior Human Resource Specialists must have an understanding of critical projects and be able to effectively prioritize projects to ensure completion in a timely manner. They must understand the significance, scope and effect of all phases of work performed and reviewed. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have maintained a calendar of all job assignments and due dates and have completed the assignments prior to or before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by using standard method of filing; and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were complete prior to beginning the next process/step. I have completed a technical assignment prior to the due date; and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going projects; and/or I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses to determine appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have multi-tasked significant projects simultaneously. I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have requested assistance/guidance with work or a project prior to the due date. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).