Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following BEST describes your experience writing about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience? Answer to this question is required I have written about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience as part of a class. I have worked as a member of a group writing about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience. I have written about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience under the guidance of a supervisor. I have written about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience without supervision. I have trained or supervised others on how to write about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience. I have not written about technical subject matter for a non-technical audience. 4 Which of the following BEST characterizes your experience providing decision makers with high level technical briefings in a manner that supports ongoing policy development requirements? Answer to this question is required I have no experience providing decision makers with high level technical briefings in a manner that supports ongoing policy development requirements. I have written high level briefing materials with guidance from a supervisor that communicated complex and technical information in a manner that supports ongoing policy development requirements. I have experience writing high level technical briefing reports for my supervisor that support ongoing policy development requirements. I have independently developed written material that communicated complex and technical program information and presented that information to a wide variety of stakeholders and satisfactorily answered detailed questions related to this technical information. I have provided decision makers with high level technical briefings and independently developed written material that communicated complex and technical program information and also presented that information to a wide variety of stakeholders and satisfactorily answered detailed questions related to this technical information. 5 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in coordinating interagency policy or policy documents. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents, having trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 6 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education training or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency intelligence policy coordination. I have work experience representing my bureau in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing intelligence policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency intelligence policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 7 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, or briefing materials with interagency input. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me performing this task. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input. I have trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following best describes your depth of experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the foreign affairs community? Answer to this question is required I have the education or training in performing this task, but have yet to perform it on the job. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually under the guidance or review by supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your background in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources. I have education or training in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have education or training in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources, and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently analyzed and evaluated information derived from a variety of sources as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at independently analyzing and evaluating information derived from a variety of sources having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 11 Which of the following most accurately describes your ability to apply reasoning to analyze and evaluate information`s relevance, significance, and validity in order to draw conclusions and make recommendations? Answer to this question is required I have some education or training in the process of analyzing and interpreting information to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I have some work experience assisting others analyzing and interpreting information in order to draw conclusions or to generate new questions to pursue. I work closely with the supervisor and/or a senior employee in analyzing and interpreting information, drawing conclusions and/or generating new questions to pursue. I have demonstrated the ability to independently collect information from a variety of sources, analyze and interpret the information, and draw conclusions to solve problems. I have demonstrated a high level of experience collecting and synthesizing information from a variety of sources involving complex issues, analyzing and interpreting the information, and drawing conclusions to solve problems. None of the above. 12 Do you have experience with interagency processes to reach a consensus on policy or program goals with organizations with differing views and interests? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following choices BEST describes your level of experience in providing advice and guidance on complicated cases where you had to develop or modify guidelines and procedures for explanatory materials? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or manager. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or manager. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following choices BEST describes your level of experience in providing advice and guidance on procedures and policies for which guidelines lacks clarity and content? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or manager. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or manager. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely, and I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 16 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Foreign Government officials Media None of the above 17 Which of the following BEST reflects your highest level of experience working with others in a work setting? Answer to this question is required I have partnered with one other person with a shared objective to accomplish work. I have worked on a team with my peers who each have been designated a distinctly separate role. I have worked on a team with individuals from different organizations, groups, or offices and have guided others to work effectively in a team environment. I have worked with a group (or groups) on many occasions with the objective to achieve goals by sharing or integrating ideas, knowledge, skills, information, support resources, and also sharing responsibility and recognition for the end product or outcomes. In supervisory or leadership capacity, created atmosphere for teamwork cooperation productivity which had positive impact. None of the above 18 Which of the following BEST describes your ability to write comprehenive intelligence-related reports and briefing senior officials on the results? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a major part of my work. I am highly skilled at performing this task and I have supervised or trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 19 Select the choice that BEST describes your ability to work in a fast-paced environment with the need for flexibility and teamwork: Answer to this question is required I quickly adapt to changing priorities and am sufficiently flexible to adjust to new assignments and duties with minimal stress. I serve as an integral part of a team in a fast-paced environment and readily and easily adapt to changing priorities and duties. I have had training that included teamwork, but have not been required to apply this skill in my job assignments. I have had limited experience having to adapt to changing priorities or working in a fast-paced environment. None of the above. 20 From the following list please select the interpersonal communication skill that you routinely and successfully apply: Answer to this question is required Interact effectively in situations where changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments Convince others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve office and/or program operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who may be difficult, unpleasant or distraught. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a specific goal. None of the above. 21 Select the one response which best describes your ability to communicate orally with various levels of employees and management. Answer to this question is required I have greeted visitors, or relayed messages, or answered and redirected telephone calls. I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others. I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project work group meetings, meetings with fellow team members). I have discussed and explained technical material that may have been controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.