Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 full year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 14 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 At which level(s) have you coordinated resources in response to emergency or disaster situations to improve the overall efficiency of recovery efforts? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Local. State. Federal. None of the above. 3 Which of the following most closely matches your level of regular and recurring experience with continuity of operations (COOP), contingency / consequence management, and emergency operations procedures? Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as an expert with continuity of operations (COOP), contingency/consequence management, and emergency operations procedures. I have developed procedures and guidelines in continuity of operations (COOP), contingency/consequence management, and emergency operations procedures as a regular part of my job and required assistance with only unique or highly unusual characteristics by a supervisor or senior employee. I have assisted with the development of procedures and guidelines related to continuity operations. The work I performed was reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. 4 Which of the following have you developed, administered, and/or implemented in regards to emergency management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emergency preparedness. Continuity of operation plans. Alternate site operations. Interagency coordination in a disaster response. Coordination with local emergency response officials. Emergency exercises. None of the above. 5 Have you planned, implemented and integrated program goals and continuous improvement processes in order to meet the mission and strategic vision of the organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have experience establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships at the federal, state, and local levels, and in deliberate or crisis planning, coordinating, and synchronizing whole-of-community efforts among the interagency partners? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you have experience working in a Crisis Operations Center, Command Operations Center, Emergency Operations Center, or similar center where coordination of emergency efforts are performed in response to an emergency and/or disaster incident? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you applied written communication skills to prepare and present recommendations and solutions to complex issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you developed and written documents and/or reports for distribution within my organization concerning emergency management procedures and/or issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following most closely matches your level of regular and recurring experience with the development of emergency/disaster response plans and exercises? Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as an expert in developing emergency/disaster plans, policies and exercises to validate the overall effectiveness of emergency response program(s). I have developed emergency/disaster plans, policies and exercises as a regular part of my job and required assistance with only unique or highly unusual characteristics by a supervisor. I have assisted with the development of emergency/disaster plans, policies and exercises and the work I performed was reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. 11 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in work unit or team assignments? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set standards, expectations, and deadlines. I have developed, updated, and executed portions of operating budgets. I have planned the work to be assigned to employees. I have established work schedules and worksite assignments. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to employees. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems. I have coached and mentored employees to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 12 Have you planned, organized, executed, and coordinated work on complex activities where numerous tasks are involved? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following areas have you researched and analyzed to develop a project management plan? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Budgetary/financial issues. Human Resources issues. Procurement issues. Scheduling issues/development of milestones. Program goal achievement. Potential project failures. None of the above. 14 Do you have experience leading work teams which included assigning work, setting employee priorities, evaluating employee performance, rewarding employees, resolving employee complaints, and effecting disciplinary actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Do you have experience with the national response framework and/or the National Continuity Policy Implementation Plan (NCPIP)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following best describes your experience in conducting extensive research, identifying problem areas, evaluating complex technical data, and making decisions or recommendations of a highly critical nature? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this job function. I have performed directly related job functions. I have occasionally performed this specific job functions, as well as directly-related functions. I have routinely performed this job function and I have been successful in using it to meet a variety of program objectives. I am highly skilled at performing this job function. I have performed it routinely, and have used it to meet a variety of project objectives, solve problems, and produce improvements in the work units or programs. I also have managed people. 17 Which of the following options most closely matches your level of regular and recurring experience with the implementation, employment, and management of emergency alert and notification systems? Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as an expert for assistance in implementing, employing, and managing emergency alert and notification systems. I have implemented, employed, and managed emergency alert and notification systems as a regular part of my job and required assistance with only unique or highly unusual characteristics by a supervisor. I have assisted with the implementation, employment, and management of emergency alert and notification systems. The work I performed was reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.