Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Welding Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to make sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and material needs; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated materials, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments, estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 In a correctional setting, Welding Worker Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have showed willingness to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment (i.e., to determine necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions). I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; and/or I have trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; and/or I have provided supervision to confined individuals. I have supervised an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have stimulated the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm people or effect escapes and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 4 Welding Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge and ability required to follow welding practices such as precise measurements and keeping tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments, and other welding practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed standard procedures and shop practices in working to close tolerances and make precise joints; and/or I have worked as a sub-contractor for finish work in metal fabrication; and/or I have used blueprints and proper tools for the trade. I have worked as a self-employed welder for all types of welding; and/or I have constructed or fabricated metal buildings, farm equipment, or pipeline welding; and/or I have remodeled interiors of metal buildings. I have adhered to standard welding practices; and/or I have worked as assistant to a self employed welder; and/or I have completed welding jobs as instructed; and/or most of the work I completed was inside shops; and/or I have used power tools, sanders, or hacksaws. None of the above. 5 Welding Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use measuring instruments connected with performing welding and other related operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have solved problems too difficult for capable journeyman in the trade; and/or I have expert knowledge in measurements of metallurgy and heat stress; and/or I have the capability to solve difficult problems in the trade. I have assisted with the use of instruments for routine purposes; and/or I have knowledge of one or two related trade processes such as flame cutting when close tolerances did not have to be met. I have used instruments and followed related practices that are common to the trade; and/or I have used templates in measuring, marking, scribing, and cutting; and/or I have the ability to control the arc, positioning, and feeding of the welding rod, with moderate supervision. None of the above. 6 Welding Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as blueprints, manuals, sketches, and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed blueprints and drawings of metal fabrication to assemble prepared metals and materials; and/or I have performed welding operations based on instructions from the supervisor; and/or I have followed blueprints, sketches, and work orders which were very specific. I have followed blueprints and drawings for all types of welding tasks; and/or I have used technical manuals for specifications; and/or I have made my own rough drawings. I have used engineer's blueprints for metal fabrication and translated for material requirements; and/or I have made sketches for crew members for various sections; and/or I have checked work to ensure strict compliance with blueprint specifications. None of the above. 7 Welding Worker Supervisors must have the ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used all hand and power tools for maintaining inside of shop; and/or I have set up and operated a power saw; and/or I have used standard measuring tools such as rules, tapes, and try square; and/or I have used power drills on occasion. I have used power equipment under supervision; and/or I have used a variety of hand tools in metal and welding sections; and/or I have used power saw set up by a crew leader. I have instructed apprentices in the use of various hand tools used in metal fabrication and finishing of projects; and/or I have set up and operated portable power saws, power sanders, levels, plumb bobs, and fine measurement tools; and/or I have modified details for shielding procedures. None of the above. 8 Welding Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of the metals used in the trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience with mild steel, angle, tube, extruded and aluminum sheet steel; and/or I have welded metal parts and structures that vary in size and shape; and/or I have made welds that required complete penetration and fusion of base and filler metals. I have served as a technical expert for competent employees at a lower level; and/or I have knowledge of characteristics of metals; and/or I have a thorough working knowledge of the metals used in a welding environment; and/or I have the ability to make modifications to the weld. I am familiar with metal materials and can recognize metals; and/or I have the ability to assure proper spacing, pressures, and heat cycles; and/or I have worked with metals such as mild steel, tubing, and aluminum sheet metal under close supervision. None of the above. 9 Welding Worker Supervisors must maintain a safe work environment while maintaining an appropriate speed and quality of work levels and safety training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with several hazards in the trade without serious accidents during the last two years; and/or I have applied a variety of manual welding processes to make difficult welds; and/or I have completed difficult welds in awkward positions. I have directed others in tasks involving potential safety hazards; and/or I have taught welding safety courses; and/or I have worked on jobs which required a high degree of visual and physical coordination. I have worked with common safety hazards in the last two years without any accidents; and/or I have worked in awkward and cramped positions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).