Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 From the following list of collections management functions, standards, and practices, please identify all that you have expertise in performing: Answer to this question is required Monitoring security and environmental conditions and recognizing conservation and preservation concerns. Tracking objects and recording information on their movement and location. Handling and moving objects that have a wide range of materials, sizes, age, historical significance, and conditions. Setting up, organizing and maintaining collections storage spaces I do not have expertise with collections management functions, standards, and practices. 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience with museum collections documentation Answer to this question is required I have assisted in a physical inventory by matching records with items I have independently matched records to items and have identified inconsistencies in the records I have independently matched records to items, identified inconsistencies, and resolved those inconsistencies I have no experience with collections documentation 4 Which of the following best describes your experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices? Answer to this question is required I have work experience with 4 museum collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration). I have work experience with 3 museum collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration). I have work experience with 2 museum collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration). I have experience with museum collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections preservation, storage, collections documentation, and registration) through college-level coursework. I do not have experience with museum collections management. 5 Which statement best reflects your experience working with collections? Activities could include cultural heritage, object, and art handling, inventory, processing deposits, unpacking/packing crates, management of object storage spaces, or assisting with an installation/deinstallation. Answer to this question is required I have over 12 months of experience working with archival collections in an archive or museum. I have over 12 months or more experience working with 2D or digital collections in a museum or gallery. I have 12 months or more experience working with 3D or digital collections in a museum or gallery. I have less than 12 months of experience working with archival collections in an archive or museum. I have less than 12 months of experience working with 2D or digital collections in a museum or gallery. I have less than 12 months of experience working with 3D or digital collections in a museum or gallery. I have no experience working with archival, 2D, 3D or digital collections in an archive, museum, or gallery. 6 What percentage of your previous museum experience has involved active collections management, including managing object storage spaces, maintaining primary responsibility for day-to-day object movement, and ensuring the safe and proper storage of the collection in accordance with best practices? (Check all that all apply) Answer to this question is required It comprised over half of my previous museum collections experience, primarily working with 3D works of art. It comprised over half of my previous museum collections experience, primarily working with 2D or other works of art. It comprised less than half of my previous museum collections experience, primarily working with 3D works of art. It comprised less than half of my previous museum collections experience, primarily working with 2D or other works of art. I have no experience in this area. 7 Which of the following describes your experience moving museum objects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience moving large items, such as furniture, that require rigging or specialized equipment. I have experience using crates, pallets and brackets to move museum objects. I have experience moving objects where space constraints impact handling methods, equipment selection, and staffing requirements. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your collections management work for museum exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have extensive knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum exhibitions including safe handling, care, research and documentation of museum objects for exhibit preparation, installation and/or de-installation. I have moderate knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum exhibitions including safe handling, care, research and documentation of museum objects for exhibit preparation, installation and/or de-installation. I have minimal knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum exhibitions including safe handling, care, research and documentation of museum objects for exhibit preparation, installation and/or de-installation. I do not have any knowledge of maintenance standards and practices in museum exhibitions including safe handling, care, research and documentation of museum objects for exhibit preparation, installation and/or de-installation. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing guided tours on historical topics and exhibited works to groups of varying sizes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally with individuals of varying technical backgrounds to clearly convey information, negotiate agreements or solutions, build consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have managed projects which required teamwork and resolution of differences or conflicts. I have had education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.