Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the summary of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Mission Support Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she exchanges information relating to the Digital Forensics Unit (DFU).&nbsp; The Mission Support Specialist demonstrates communication skills when conversing with all levels of staff internal to the agency/organization and with working groups within the intelligence community interpreting analysis reports. He/she must possess skills in oral communication sufficient to prepare and present findings and recommendations, carry out specific actions regarding controversial issues, and/or sell or implement new ideas and concepts.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have requested/exchanged investigative information from local law enforcement or Regional/Central Office sites; and/or I have presented information to others on the merits of a new security system/equipment during internal meetings; and/or I have provided guidance to non-technical personnel on the operation of security systems/equipment; and/or I have coordinated and facilitated meetings/briefings with mid-level management, contractors and vendors to resolve issues encountered; and/or I have instructed informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have chaired or served as an agency/organization representative at technical meetings with other agencies/organizations on various security system related topics; and/or I have developed and presented technical electronic security related instructional programs/trainings to management officials in a formal setting; and/or I have conducted technical briefings to negotiate security requirements or programs. I have briefed department/office/unit staff on technical issues within specific discipline; and/or I have conducted briefings on agency digital forensic activities to other Department of Justice (DOJ) agencies, state or local law enforcement; and/or I have conducted weekly intelligence briefings for the Executive Staff which provided pertinent information affecting institution operations; and/or I have provided intensive technical training to a group of law enforcement officials and colleagues on new forensics equipment and procedures. None of the above. 5 The Mission Support Specialist assists with forensic research and drafting written intelligence reports and studies pertaining to data retrieved from devices recovered at all field sites throughout the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, as the reports may impact national law enforcement trends, strategies and programs. The Mission Support Specialist assists with the preparation of new and/or revised directives which express the operating policies of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared intelligence reports for review and approval by supervisor prior to use; and/or I have assisted in preparing intelligence related reports (i.e., threat assessments, risk assessments); and/or I have prepared link analysis reports on incarcerated terrorists and their relationship to persons of interest in the community; and/or I have written memorandum to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have drafted technical security policies for agency/organization use; and/or I have written detailed technical specifications for use as bid documents for security system upgrades and replacements. I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared routine reports for agency staff such as statistical material for decision and informational purposes; and/or I have written incident reports on infractions committed by inmates; and/or I have compiled information gathered from different sources into a report for the Executive Staff; and/or I have written lesson plans and created presentations for Annual Training, Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I or an inter-agency training. I have prepared informative reports regarding analysis of population/demographic characteristics; and/or I have written memorandum for co-workers or less experienced employees outlining newly established procedures; and/or I have written an investigation report; and/or I have prepared written responses to correspondence from internal/external sources; and/or I have prepared digital forensic reports; and/or I have initiated correspondence and status reports to inform agency staff and outside law enforcement officials of the status of various investigations; and/or I have prepared briefing papers; and/or I have prepared technical status reports (i.e., annual equipment reports, project status reports on security system upgrade projects); and/or I have developed a Statement of Work for technical projects; and/or I have prepared local level technical security system instructions (i.e., internal operating procedures, standard operating procedures, Institution Supplement). None of the above. 6 The Mission Support Specialist assists the Forensic Analyst's efforts to explore new forensic technology, and compiles, studies, and produces reports on such technology in use to further analyze efforts with existing manufacturers.&nbsp; He/she supports collecting, preserving, handling, and the disposal of digital devices as evidence, to include proper data entry for evidence in the investigative database. The Mission Support Specialist uses an accounting system to generate reports and analyzes the data to ensure accuracy of entries. He/she designs and maintains databases, file organization and maintenance for statistical reports of requests for purchase and purchase orders.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated and selected tools and methods for productivity and software quality throughout a system life cycle; and/or I have diagnosed and resolved system problems; and/or I have installed new software; and/or I have performed updates to existing software. I have used bookmarking to identify items relevant to an investigation to generate case specific reports for graphics recovery; and/or I have exported files following the acquisition state to view content with an associated desktop application or with a device specific emulator; and/or I have used a Validate Hash Codes feature to report files that have been altered during an acquisition process. I have performed routine preventative maintenance on electronics, or Information Technology (IT) systems; and/or I have identified program issues to vendors when purchasing software; and/or I have identified and isolated a programming problem and referred it for appropriate action. I have viewed graphics with a Picture Window application for collection, exportation and inspection with a third party tool; and/or I have imported data into a forensic application for a virtual view of data contained on a device or to view data through a standard American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) or comparable forensic application. None of the above. 7 The Mission Support Specialist receives, processes and accurately labels incoming evidence, while understanding legal guidelines and Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy regarding the preservation and handling and disposition of evidence. He/she handles sensitive information with discretion and confidentiality.&nbsp; The Mission Support Specialist completes digital forensic assignments which entail a variety of technical duties and employs a broad range of fact-finding and analytical techniques on investigative issues.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided relevant collected data to be used in an investigation or research product; and/or I have retrieved and reviewed reports from a Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) computerized database for higher level review; and/or I have compiled information in relation to audits and provided summary to supervisor. I have determined characteristics of problems/issues encountered by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have used automated systems to pull statistical data on inmates to maintain established intelligence gathering criteria; and/or I have used existing automation to retrieve available intelligence-related information; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP)/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have analyzed results of audits and developed trend or deficiency reports. I have conducted a portion of a research project by collecting data and organizing information to be used by others; and/or I have conducted an audit with others to ensure policy compliance; and/or I have identified strengths and weaknesses of current security procedures and recommended methods of improvement; and/or I have prepared technical reports and presented findings; and/or I have gathered information and analyzed results. None of the above. 8 The Mission Support Specialist develops, analyzes, evaluates, and advises on improving the effectiveness of work methods and procedures. He/she manages time and resources efficiently to meet deadlines. The Mission Support Specialist has knowledge of the variety of institutions, inmate populations and the resulting problems presented by the various combinations in order to effectively carry out primary responsibilities of directing and evaluating operating programs in field institutions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched, reviewed and successfully implemented new theories, concepts and developments; and/or I have provided technical assistance to managers and staff on matters relating to new operating guidelines; and/or I have coordinated management analysis functions with managers to determine how productivity could be improved. I have performed a segment of research for a group project; and/or I have proposed entries in the institution hot files or posted picture card files; and/or I have gathered data for technical report for presentation to managers; and/or I have participated in an internal audit and completed assigned steps within deadline; and/or I have used standard investigative techniques and investigated minor infractions. I have conducted inmate investigations with limited physical evidence and used a variety of research procedures to complete a timely investigation; and/or I have analyzed and combined intelligence information into intelligence summaries/threat assessments and other intelligence products; and/or I have performed trend analysis on digital forensic support; and/or I have conducted a portion of a research project by collecting data and organizing information to be used by others; and/or I have coordinated perpetual audits to ensure policy compliance. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).