Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 4 In which of the following stages of the security clearance process have you been involved? Answer to this question is required Gathering investigative information through interviews and reviewing personal records in order to provide basis for a security clearance determination. Ensuring all documents are properly completed and logged into a tracking system such as JPAS or EQIP for an adjudicator to review. Reviewed documents and interviews retrieved from a system such as JPAS or EQIP in order to make a final determination on a security clearance. I have no experience in the security clearance process. 5 Which of the following duties have you routinely performed in the processing of adjudicating a security clearance? Answer to this question is required Retrieved a Report of Investigation from a centralized web based system. Ensured that investigative leads are complete. Wrote an analysis on findings from a review of reports of investigation. Formulated a written recommendation for a final determination on a security clearance. I have not performed any of the above duties in the processing of adjudicating a security clearance. 6 Which of the following adjudicative guidelines have you used in making a final security clearance determination? Answer to this question is required Allegiance to the US Foreign Influence Foreign Preference Sexual Behavior Personal Conduct Financial Considerations Alcohol Consumption Drug Involvement Psychological Conditions Criminal Conduct Handling Protected Information Outside Activities Use of information Technology Systems None of the Above 7 Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate solutions? Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision. I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions. I have led others charged with analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions. I have no experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions. 8 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems in a work environment? Answer to this question is required I have no experience solving problems on work related issues. I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in problem solving, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. 9 Please select from the list below situations in which you have interpreted complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance. Answer to this question is required To manage programs To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs / operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above 10 In which of the following events have you communicated verbally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.