Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to GS-6 grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have one full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at GS-7. I meet the superior academic achievement provision described in the vacancy announcement. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following describes your experience coordinating administrative tasks for international projects? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience coordinating multiple administrative tasks related to US Government and/or other donor-funded international projects. I have work experience providing backstopping to new or ongoing international projects. I have work experience in a foreign country performing administrative duties that involved multiple tasks at the same time. None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing externally sponsored international projects? &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have coordinated/managed small or medium projects involving externally sponsored international work I have worked on a team managing long-term projects involving externally sponsored international work I have training in project coordination/management. I have no experience with project coordination/management. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, managing projects, and reporting status updates to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and projects as project coordinator, and reported status updates independently. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and coordinated programs and projects as project coordinator, and reported status updates to management under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have evaluated data, prepared and analyzed reports, and assisted with the coordination of programs and projects, and reported status updates to project manager. I have education or training evaluating data, preparing and analyzing reports, and coordinating programs and projects but I have not yet performed this task on the job. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience with a wide range of procedures, policies, regulations in complex assignments related to project administration? Answer to this question is required I have been in charge of project administration and complex assignments in federal agencies including the Smithsonian Institution. I have been in charge of project administration and complex assignments in federal agencies. I have been in charge of project administration and complex assignments in other settings. I have assisted project administration and complex assignments in federal agencies. I have assisted project administration and complex assignments in other settings. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience working on the development of new international opportunities for an organization? (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have provided administrative support to one proposal effort for a new international opportunity for an organization. I have provided administrative support to multiple proposal efforts for new international opportunities for an organization. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your experience coordinating the efforts of international projects in a complex organization or federal government setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led components of an international multi-departmental project team. I have developed budgets, project plans, and schedules; and coordinated activities and documented results for complex international projects. I have participated in an externally sponsored international project coordination team, attended related meetings, and provided guidance on project management-related actions. As part of an externally sponsored international project coordination team, I have investigated and resolved concerns and problems related to international projects. I have assessed needs, developed scopes of work, planned schedules, and coordinated efforts with team members and management for externally sponsored international projects. I was responsible for the on-going coordination of complex externally sponsored international projects. I have developed budgets, project plans, or schedules for complex externally sponsored international projects under supervision or direction of a supervisor. I have received education or training in developing budgets, project plans or schedules for complex externally sponsored international projects but have not had the opportunity to perform this task on the job. None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your experience managing a network of international programs? Check all that apply Answer to this question is required I have managed an international network of programs. I have managed complex, competing priorities to ensure program success. I have prepared reports on large grants and financial accounts. I have used a wide variety of office software. I have managed, tracked and reported on the activities of a complex organization. I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. 9 Which of the following best represents your level of experience engaging with people from different cultures and/or countries? Answer to this question is required In my work, I have been the main point of contact for foreign nationals. I have worked in an international setting. I have been educated in an international setting. I have no experience engaging with people from different cultures and/or countries. 10 Which of the following responses best describes the experience you have interpreting and applying a wide variety of agency or company regulations, as well as other instructional/regulatory materials? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 11 What experience do you have using automated office applications (e.g., Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access or other databases, and SharePoint)? Answer to this question is required Experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access (or other databases) and SharePoint. Experience with Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Access (or other databases). Experience with Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Experience with Microsoft Word and Excel. Experience with Microsoft Word. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience using Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, or Excel to create tables, budgets, and charts in order to track data. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in using Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage and track data I have completed training in using Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to and track data, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage and track data on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have used Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage and track data as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 13 Which of the following describes your experience working with an international project between external collaborators and a museum, other organization implementing a project/program with international partners and stakeholders &nbsp;(Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have experience as an international project coordinator for a program between external collaborators and a museum, other organization implementing a project/program with international partners and stakeholders. I have experience working on an international project between external collaborators and a museum, other organization implementing a project/program with international partners and stakeholders. I have experience working for a museum, other organization implementing a project/program with international partners and stakeholders. I have no experience working for a museum, other organization implementing a project/program with international partners and stakeholders. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience providing clear and concise communication to internal and external customers? Answer to this question is required I have provided clear and concise communication to internal and external customers as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task. I have provided clear and concise communication to internal and external customers as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have provided clear and concise communication to internal and external customers under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure that communication was effective. I have completed training on how to effectively communicate with customers but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have experience or training providing clear and concise communication to internal and external customers. 15 Please select your level of expertise in: communication including the ability to prepare reports, draft plans and guidelines, and convey complex international project technical requirements and information to internal and external stakeholders (check all that apply). Answer to this question is required I have conducted interviews with supervisors and managers to obtain information about organizational missions, functions, and work procedures I have conducted interviews with non-supervisory staff or managers in the course of developing a complex international project. I have communicated with a variety of groups and individuals involving explanation and clarification of detailed regulations and policies. I have participated in communications with a wide audience of stakeholders. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.