Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating verbally and in writing with staff from different departments to support projects, exhibits, or programs? Answer to this question is required I regularly communicate with staff from different departments to gather information, share updates, and support projects or exhibits. This includes participating in meetings and providing clear written or verbal information. I often communicate with staff from other departments to support projects or programs, including sharing information and following up on requests. I have experience communicating with staff within my department and occasionally with other departments to share information or updates. I have limited experience communicating with multiple departments and usually support others by passing along information. I do not have experience communicating across departments. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience researching information for animal species and determining requirements to support exhibits, programs, or interpretive materials? Answer to this question is required I regularly research information about animal species and work with animal care staff or subject matter experts to understand habitat, environmental, and behavioral requirements for exhibits or programs. I have experience researching animal species and gathering information to support exhibits or programs, including consulting reference materials and coordinating with knowledgeable staff. I have assisted with researching animal or species-related information to support exhibits, programs, or written materials. I have limited experience researching species information and typically support others by locating basic information. I do not have experience researching animal species or determining related requirements. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience using research findings to help inform exhibit content, design considerations, or interpretive materials related to animal species? Answer to this question is required I regularly use research information about animal species to help inform exhibit content or interpretive materials, and I communicate relevant findings to staff involved in exhibit development. I use research information about animal species to support exhibit or program content, including sharing relevant details with others working on the project. I have assisted with using research information to support exhibit or program materials related to animal species. I have limited experience using research information and usually support others by providing basic details. I do not have experience applying research information related to animal species. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience working with art media, graphic or commercial art, building materials, or structural components to support the development or installation of exhibits or interpretive materials? Answer to this question is required I regularly work with a variety of art media, graphic or commercial art elements, and building or structural materials to support exhibit development or installation, following established designs or plans. I have experience working with art media, graphic elements, or building materials to support exhibits or interpretive materials, with guidance from designers or project leads. I have assisted with exhibit-related work involving art media, graphic elements, or materials by following instructions or specifications. I have limited experience supporting work involving exhibit materials or visual elements. I do not have experience working with art media, graphic art, or exhibit-related materials. 7 Which of the following describes your experience creating contracts and purchase requests for services, materials and supplies? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience creating contracts or purchase requests. I am familiar with exhibit fabrication and materials. I have researched exhibit fabrication materials working with internal and external vendors I have prepared material lists and cost estimates for exhibit materials. I have developed statements of work (SOW) and requests for quotation (RFQ) and sent them out to vendors for goods and services. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience conceptualizing, researching, and writing content appropriate for exhibitions, publications, and educational materials? Answer to this question is required I have independently researched, organized, developed, and written substantive content for a creative project such as a website, publication, or exhibition published or presented by an organization. I have worked as a member of a project team researching, organizing, developing, and writing substantive content published or presented by an organization. I have researched, conceptualized, and written content for an organization. I do not have experience researching, organizing, and writing content. 9 Which of the following describes your experience overseeing the building of museum exhibits and ensuring exhibit project specifications, deadlines, budgets, design, and program goals are met. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience analyzing program and project design processes, production schedule and data, while consulting with informed individuals in project management field. I have experience attending a variety of meetings with the design, production, graphics, exhibits technology and services groups and leadership to coordinate all project plans, objectives and goals are on track to be met. I have experience performing quality reviews at regular intervals throughout the project to ensure exhibit project specifications, deadlines, budgets, design and program goals are on track to be met. I do not possess the experience described above. 10 In which of the following settings have you managed multiple exhibits projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required In a public zoological park. In a museum. In a park. In a private company/entity (as an Exhibit Contractor). None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.