Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Customer Service Representative interacts with people of diverse backgrounds in order to plan and coordinate work, provide policy guidance, advise, or train, and convey available services of their particular UNICOR operation to customers. They oversee teams of inmates who process inbound orders and customer documentation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a facility tour for a small group of new staff; and/or I have given oral presentation during department meeting or staff recall; and/or I have answered routine inquiries received from internal personnel. I have presented oral instructions in a clear and concise manner for management and training inmates; and/or I have participated in interviews; and/or I have conducted formal training sessions. I have coordinated delivery schedules with vendors; and/or I have resolved outstanding order discrepancy with vendor, resulting in the receipt of merchandise or appropriate credit; and/or I have provided expert advice to workers regarding details responsible for obtaining complete information from customers and others. I have briefed supervisor on status of a project; and/or I have communicated new office procedures to co-workers; and/or I have presented information during staff meeting. None of the above. 3 The Customer Service Representative must be able to prepare reports, policies, and other correspondence necessary for the orderly running of their assigned area. They are responsible for developing written material for training purposes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memorandum to staff to advise them of new policies/procedures; and/or I have assisted in preparing inventory schedules; and/or I have developed training agendas, slide shows, and lesson plans for management; and/or I have corresponded with clients or vendors regarding established customer procedures. I have provided input into the development of agendas, lesson plans and slide shows for a training class; and/or I have summarized data into a report as instructed; and/or I have prepared shipping documents; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for higher level review to proofread/edit. I have assisted in the development of training agendas, slide shows and lesson plans; and/or I have initiated e-mail or memorandum to co-workers and peers to explain non-routine procedures; and/or I have recommended new customer service techniques for review; and/or I have prepared non-routine and routine responses to inquiries for supervisor's signature. None of the above. 4 The Customer Service Representative must create and maintain a high level of enthusiasm and motivation among the staff and customers on a daily basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided standard/required coaching to maintained average level of worker retention; and/or I have met customer quality standards; and/or I have used existing agent incentives which maintains customer quality. I have provided on-going training to ensure an above average level of worker retention; and/or I have exceeded customer quality standards; and/or I have used existing agent incentives which measurably improved order processing. I have provided daily coaching to workers to maintain a high level of worker retention; and/or I have exceeded industry quality standards; and/or I have developed new agent incentives which measurably improved order processing. None of the above. 5 The Customer Service Representative is responsible for planning and organizing work under general supervision. They must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and must efficiently use the time and resources available to them. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have ensured office supplies were maintained and ordered prior to depletion; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have requested assistance to complete an assignment/project in advance of established deadline date. I have maintained electronic calendar of all job assignments and due dates to complete assignments; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code, or accounting code); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. With assistance, I have completed tasks as assigned within the prescribed time period; and/or I have requested extension from supervisor to complete an assignment; and/or I have made personal "task/checklists" for various projects in order to remember specific information that must be completed. None of the above. 6 The Customer Service Representative must be knowledgeable of personal computers in order to effectively supervise inmate agents and meet the needs of their assigned factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used software programs to generate electronic mail messages to staff members; and/or I have entered and retrieved data using basic programs (Microsoft Word, Excel); and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using various word processing spreadsheets and database programs. I have updated a database by changing information contained in database and spreadsheet; and/or I have assisted in creating a spreadsheet using a specific database program; and/or I have used a database to track and project completion dates/information; and/or I have assisted in programming and retrieved data from database personal computer. I have determined that output failed due to operator errors; and/or I have discovered an application error in software and reported it to information technology specialist for action; and/or I have located and replaced improper data; and/or I have ensured proper use of computer hardware and software to provide service to customers. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).