Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Management and Program Analyst works in a team environment, maintains effective manager-subordinate working relationship and effectively works with persons external to the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented an agency on joint workgroups with other federal agencies; and/or I have worked as a liaison between agency and private sector consultants; and/or I have served as a liaison between parties involved in audits, project development activities, or other team activities; and/or I have facilitated arbitration activities which resulted in sound conclusions; and/or I have provided training to managers and supervisors on requirements of the Information Technology budget; and/or I have identified conflicting requirements among diverse agency components; and/or I have negotiated efforts to resolve issues with other agencies challenging participants. I have coordinated meetings between staff, other government agency staff, or private sector consultants to gather/exchange information; and/or I have communicated information needs to staff from other departments, regional offices, division offices; and/or I have conducted meetings outside the agency to facilitate recommendations for addressing issues; and/or I have actively participated in operational reviews; and/or I have identified and resolved conflicting requirements among organizational components. I have contacted line staff or other administrative personnel as follow up on behalf of management or senior level staff; and/or I have maintained communication via email, telephone, faxes, or face-to-face communication; and/or I have participated in various meetings and provided input in resolving issues. None of the above. 5 The Management and Program Analyst reviews the work of others, establishes time frame goals, organizes tasks, and establishes priorities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I am responsible for maintaining work plans for accomplishing assigned task; and/or I have provided management input on establishing priorities for individually assigned work task; and/or I have utilized or developed resources, methods or tools to complete multiple assignments; and/or I have prioritized work based upon task assigned by management; and/or I have completed assigned task accurately and timely; and/or I have created procedures, checklist and spreadsheets to track completion of task; and/or I have effectively managed workload and met required deadlines. I have determined time frames and established procedures for accomplishing task; and/or I have coordinated the execution of task per predetermined priorities with minimal supervision; and/or I have planned and coordinated various meetings and special projects which are designed to improve the operations and decision-making process of the agency; and/or I have assisted team members with planning, coordinating, and prioritizing activities to complete complex long-term and short-term projects having significant impact on operations; and/or I have completed assignments by performing research and proposing actions to meet the needs of the agency. I have prioritized work within a timely manner due to staff shortages; and/or I have assisted others with completion of assignments; and/or I have followed establish methods and procedures to accomplish assignments; and/or I have completed assignments under the direction of management. None of the above. 6 The Management and Program Analyst collects information from management, workgroups, or other sources, analyzes the information with the intent of drawing conclusions and communicating the results of analysis to managers, team leaders, or workgroups. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others in reviewing and compiling data/information necessary to complete assigned analysis tasks and projects; and/or I have determined trends based on review of performance and statistical data; and/or I have responded to staff inquiries regarding existing policy. I have utilized office productivity software to compile information, produce spreadsheets, charts, or documents and disseminate compiled information to managers, peers, or team members; and/or I have analyzed/evaluated contracts, agency policies, and sensitive reports/information to determine the course of action which best suited to benefit the agency; and/or I have prepared reports and presentations used to assist management/teams with making decisions; and/or I have provided oral reports of information received from other departments or external agencies; and/or I have developed budgets and spending analysis of cost centers; and/or I have analyzed data and developed methods and automated solutions to improve productivity within the organization/agency. I have participated on a team responsible for gathering data, evaluating practices and procedures and making proposed changes aimed at increasing effectiveness of a program; and/or I have communicated detail information to supervisor based upon research requested by supervisor; and/or I have developed effective presentations based upon research performed collectively by a team/workgroup; and/or I have analyzed acquisition and other accounting information aimed at providing manager, team leader, or workgroup information on the status of funding; and/or I have facilitated meetings with senior management based upon information gathered, analyzed, documented which required the attention of management or Executive Staff. None of the above. 7 The Management and Program Analyst must demonstrate the ability to receive instructions both in writing and orally. He/she must communicate responses and work products via status reports, work plans, or verbally in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed briefings or demonstrations for managers, team leaders, or workgroups on project status or work products; and/or I have gathered information from within the agency, vendors, or external government agencies analyzing and compiling that information to produce a work product for managers or teams to use in making decisions; and/or I have advised managers or team members on the interpretation of standards, policies, and procedures; and/or I have reviewed and interpreted contracts, agency policies, agency reports/information to recommend a course of action best suited for the agency; and/or I have worked as a lead analyst for a large scale program/project independently; and/or I have reviewed technical documentation/specifications and communicated their impact on operations to auditors and other agency personnel; and/or I have prepared project management and system security plans. I have assisted managers or team members with interpreting standards, policies, and procedure; and/or I have participated on a work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have participated in a management assessment process. I have collaborated with others in summarizing findings from an operational review for corrective action as assigned by management; and/or I have performed data comparisons on behalf of management; and/or I have determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have prepared studies and cost/benefit reports to be reviewed by the supervisor or others. None of the above. 8 The Management and Program Analyst formulates long-term and short-term goals for financial data including aging balances, cash forecasts, invoicing methods, and improving collection times. He/she prepares analysis of financial data, identifies discrepancies, and implements programs necessary to achieve established goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed annual budget estimates under the close supervision of a supervisor; and/or I have developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget; and/or I have applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions; and/or I have analyzed overhead allocations over a period to determine if corrective measures were needed. I have directed/coordinated accounting operations which included Information Technology acquisitions and invoice payments; and/or I have identified unusual obligation trends, patterns or inconsistent rates in relationship to prior year history and investigated/reported inconsistent spending patterns; and/or I have managed multiple cost centers; and/or I have conducted analysis and recommended redirection of existing resources to provide for unforeseen events based on analysis of data (i.e., current spending rates and projected requirements related to new initiatives, etc.); and/or I have prepared funding requests with data analysis/program initiatives that provided justification to support additional resources required; and/or I have provided training to managers and supervisors on the requirements of the Information Technology budget. I have determined relevant budget data from computer reports for field offices; and/or I have resolved minor/routine discrepancies in financial reports; and/or I have coordinated required corrective action to resolve discrepancies with enterprise and local level procurements (i.e., budget allotment, reimbursable agreements, procurement, etc.) by properly presenting the data and analysis that indicates the errors involved. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).