Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission - Protecting People and the Environment Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I am a degree seeking student enrolled at least half-time in an accredited educational institution. Half-time enrollment is defined by the educational institution and will be a student during my internship. Answer to this question is required True False 2 What is your current cumulative grade point average (GPA)? (You must convert your GPA to the 4.0 scale, if another is used). Answer to this question is required On a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is 2.85 or higher On a 4.0 scale, my cumulative GPA is below 2.85 3 What is your major? Answer to this question is required Business Computer Science / Information Technology (including Cloud Computing, Cybersecurity, Data Analytics/Data Science, Instructional System Design) Emergency Management (including Criminal Justice, Homeland Security, Security Management) Engineering 3.1 Please specify engineering discipline, if applicable. Chemical Computer Civil/Structural Electrical/Electronics Environmental Fire Protection General Engineering Industrial Materials/Metallurgical Mechanical Nuclear/Radiological Systems Engineering Welding Other Graphic Design/Information Management (including Digital Media, Library Science, Multimedia, Records Management) International Affairs / International Policy Mathematics (including Actuarial Science, Data Analytics/Science, Statistics) Physical Science 3.1 Please specify physical science discipline, if applicable. Atmospheric/Meteorology Environmental Geology Health Physics (including Radiation Biology, Radiation Chemistry, Medical Physics) Hydrology Physics Seismology Other Other 4 Have you received a scholarship or fellowship through an NRC grant funded program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Please select the choice that will match your educational background at the end of the 2025 academic year (May/June 2026). Answer to this question is required I will be a high school graduate with 1 to 29 semester hours of college credit. I will be a high school graduate with 30 to 59 semester hours of college credit. I will be a high school graduate with 60 to 89 semester hours of college credit. I will be a high school graduate with 90 or more semester hours of college credit. I will be a graduate student. I will have graduated and seeking full-time employment. None of the above. 6 What school are you attending during the 2025/2026 academic year? Answer to this question is required Alabama A&M University Bowie State University Case Western Reserve University City College of New York / City University of New York (CCNY/CUNY) Clark Atlanta University Clemson University Florida International University Florida Memorial University Fort Lewis College Fort Valley State University Georgia Institute of Technology Grambling State University Hampton University Howard University Idaho State University Louisiana State University Massachusetts Institute of Technology Missouri University of Science and Technology Morehouse College Morgan State University New Mexico State University North Carolina State A&T University North Carolina State University Northeastern State University (The) Ohio State University Oregon State University Pennsylvania State University Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico Purdue University Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute South Carolina State University Southern University Spelman College Texas A&M University - College Station Texas A&M University - Kingsville Thomas Edison State University Tuskegee University Universidad Ana G. Mendez University of California University of California - Berkeley University of Florida University of Houston - Downtown University of Illinois at Urbana - Champaign University of Maryland - Baltimore County University of Maryland - College Park University of Maryland - Global Campus University of Massachusetts - Lowell University of Michigan University of Missouri - Columbia University of Nevada - Las Vegas University of Nevada - Reno University of New Mexico University of North Carolina - Pembroke University of Pittsburgh University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez University of Tennessee University of Texas - Austin University of Texas - El Paso University of Texas - Permian Basin University of Texas - San Antonio University of Wisconsin - Madison Utah State University Virginia Commonwealth University Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Western Carolina University Other 7 How did you first hear about this job opportunity at the NRC? Answer to this question is required NRC Website USAJOBS.gov Online job search website (excluding USAJOBS.gov) Online Banner Ad Social Media (ex. LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter) Magazine or newspaper advertisement Career Fair Exhibit Veteran's Organization Professional meeting Current NRC employee Professor or Colleague Friend or relative Other 8 If a current NRC employee informed you of this position or encouraged you to apply, please provide their name in the space provided. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 12 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. View Vacancy Details We welcome your feedback on NRCareers. To contact us, please see Contact Us About Employment and select NRCareers from the dropdown list. Working at NRC Opportunities Outreach New Employees Apply Now Contact Us This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).