Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the English language AND one or more other languages.** Professional knowledge of the English language AND one or more other languages to catalog cartographic materials. This includes reading, writing, speaking, and translating at a level sufficient to identify bibliographic elements and/or acquire material in all formats. (Please specify the languages you have knowledge of in your short answer response.) Answer to this question is required Experience communicating in English AND one or more other languages in a professional library environment. This includes reading, writing, and translating these languages with fluency and familiarity (e.g., grammar) similar to that of a native reader/writer/translator. Experience communicating in English AND one or more other languages in a library environment. This includes reading, writing, and translating these languages to perform library related activities. Some experience or college-level competency communicating in English AND one or more other languages. This includes reading, writing, and translating these languages. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to apply knowledge of cataloging rules, procedures, and practices.** Applied knowledge of cataloging rules, procedures and practices to catalog a variety of materials in an automated cataloging environment. This included executing the following tasks: 1) searched entries in automated and manual catalogs, 2) assigned headings to catalog entries, 3) selected and assigned classification numbers, 4) established personal and corporate names and uniform titles for inclusion in the name authority file, 5) established and recommended subject headings for inclusion in the subject authority file and classification schedule, 6) created and revised bibliographic records, authority records, and classification schedules, and 7) performed content designation of bibliographic and authority records. Answer to this question is required Independently or under minimal supervision, performed ALL the above tasks in a professional or academic library setting. Independently or under minimal supervision, performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks in a professional or academic library setting. Independently or under minimal supervision, performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks in a professional or academic library setting. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to develop and maintain relationships and provide consultation and liaison services.** Provided consultation and performed liaison duties to help solve technical problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and with national and/or international partners, and provided SPECIALIZED AND/OR TECHNICAL INFORMATION in the fields of library acquisitions and/or cataloging. Developed and maintained professional relationships with colleagues within an organization and provided SPECIALIZED OR TECHNICAL INFORMATION in the fields of library acquisitions and/or cataloging. Developed and maintained relationships with individuals from a variety of backgrounds and cultures, communicating SPECIALIZED OR TECHNICAL INFORMATION in a professional and/or an academic setting. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to utilize information technology and online systems. Utilized information technology and online systems to perform cataloging duties. Systems used included: 1) integrated library systems (e.g., Voyager, Folio); 2) online catalog tools (e.g., ClassWeb); 3) word processing, spreadsheets, and document management software (e.g., MS Word, Excel, Adobe); 4) email, collaboration, and scheduling software (e.g., Outlook, Teams); and 5) Internet search engines and databases. Answer to this question is required Independently used ALL OF THE ABOVE to perform cataloging duties and tasks. Independently or under minimal supervision used THREE (3) or FOUR (4) OF THE ABOVE in performing cataloging activities. Independently or under minimal supervision used TWO (2) OF THE ABOVE in performing cataloging activities. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize, and execute work. Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize, and execute work assignments in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, prioritized, organized, and completed work assignments for self and workgroup, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required input and resources, and schedules established and met deadlines and milestones. With minimal supervision, planned, organized, and completed work assignments, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, and required input and resources, and meeting deadlines and milestones. Completed work assignments primarily planned by supervisor. Identified work objectives and followed well established procedures meeting critical deadlines. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).