Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you possess a degree or diploma from a professional nursing program approved by the legally designated State accrediting agency at the time the program was completed by the applicant? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the registration requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. I have graduated from an approved nursing educational program within the past 12 months and my State registration is pending. None of the above 3 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience practicing the full range of professional nursing care principles, practices and procedures including having experience: (1) assessing, planning, implementing and evaluating employee/patient care utilizing the nursing process to determine proper health care in a work environment; and (2) developing and implementing techniques common to normal nursing practices (i.e. performing palliative, triage and emergency care). 4 Are you certified in Basic Life Support (BLS)? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list the organization with which you are certified (AHA, ARC, other) and the expiration of the BLS certification. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Which physical exams/procedures have you independently conducted on patients on a routine basis? Answer to this question is required Vital Signs Electrocardiogram (EKG) Spirometry Audiometry Vision Screening None of the above 6 Please select the choice(s) below related to your experience independently managing patients enrolled in the allergen immunotherapy (AIT) program on a routine basis: Answer to this question is required Evaluated referrals for AIT Identified discrepancies in medical records and physicians’ orders Followed established AIT program SOP Correctly administered AIT serum Initiated appropriate treatment for allergic reactions Activated emergency response system None of the above 7 Please select the choice(s) you have independently and routinely performed: Answer to this question is required Evaluate patients’ clinical complaints Evaluate patients’ pertinent medical history Conduct physical examinations Conduct ancillary studies (i.e. EKGs etc) None the above 8 Please select the choice(s) below related to your experience independently handling emergency situations on a routine basis: Answer to this question is required Triage Basic First Aid CPR EKGs Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Oxygen utilization Palliative treatment None of the above 9 Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education maintaining health records, medical data and diagnostic test results for healthcare providers. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 10 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 10.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.