Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service related to the work of this position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with rights and reproductions policies as they pertain to copyrighted works in a public collection?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed the rights and reproductions function for works in a public collection. I have work experience with applying policies of fair use and public domain as they pertain to public collections. I have work experience researching copyright and/or personality rights for works in public collections. I have work experience in locating and communicating with rights holders and in the negotiation of image license and usage agreements. I have completed coursework in how to apply rights and reproductions policies, concepts, and standards to works in public collections. I have no experience with rights and reproductions policies. 3 Which of the following describes your experience with licensing copyrighted materials? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have overseen a program to license copyrighted materials for a museum or other cultural heritage organization. I have experience researching copyright to license copyrighted materials for a museum or other cultural heritage organization. I have experience arranging licenses for copyrighted materials for use by a museum or other cultural heritage organization. I have experience researching copyright. I have experience with copyright policies and standards for uses of copyrighted materials by a museum or other cultural heritage organization. I have no experience licensing copyrighted materials by a museum or other cultural heritage organization. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with rights and reproductions policies as they pertain to copyrighted works in a public collection? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience with rights and reproductions policies in a major museum or cultural heritage institution. I have work experience applying policies of fair use and public domain as they pertain to collections in a major museum or cultural heritage institution. I have work experience researching copyright and/or personality rights for works in a major museum or cultural heritage institution. I have work experience in locating and communicating with rights holders and in the negotiation of image license and usage agreements I have no experience with rights and reproductions policies. 5 Which of the following public inquiry management tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from media outlets and journalists. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from museum professionals and academics. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from editors and publishers. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from commercial entities for product development. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from K-12 educators and students. I have experience in responding to image rights inquiries from the general public for private use. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge, training and experience in project management? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge, training and experience in project management and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in project management, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in project management. 7 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in developing and implementing a code of best practices that includes policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works to improve access to a museum’s digital assets, and yet protect the museum from liability. I have work experience providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works. I have knowledge about copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works. I have no experience with providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards. 8 Which of the following describes your knowledge of collection information management systems to include The Museum System (TMS)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used The Museum System (TMS) collections information management system and have performed data entry and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I am familiar with and have used other collections information management systems such as Vernon Systems (Vernon CMS) and/or KE Software (EMu Systems) I am familiar with database management software (e.g. MS SQL Server, my SQL, and MS Access) I am unfamiliar with collections information management systems and software. 9 Which of the following describes your knowledge of preservation standards for digital assets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have helped develop preservation standards for digital assets stored in a digital assets management system for a cultural heritage institution. I have applied preservation standards to digital assets stored in a digital assets management system. I am familiar with preservation standards for digital assets. I am not familiar with preservation standards for digital assets. 10 Which of the following describes your experience with best practices for managing digital assets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created standards incorporating best practices for managing digital assets for a cultural heritage institution. I have followed best practices for managing digital assets for a cultural heritage institution. I am familiar with best practices for managing digital assets. I am not familiar with best practices for managing digital assets. 11 From the following list related to the fulfillment of requests for image rights and reproduction, please identify all that you have expertise in performing: Answer to this question is required Formally responding in writing to requests for image rights and reproduction. Responding orally with parties requesting image rights and reproduction. Completing paperwork for formal permissions, fees and delivery of images, in collaboration with appropriate curatorial staff. Processing, recording and filing foes and payments related to the fulfillment of requests for image rights and reproduction. I do not have expertise with the fulfillment of requests for image rights and reproduction. 12 Which of the following describes your experience with professional written communication on a professional level regarding image permissions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing with media outlets and journalists. I have communicated in writing with outside museum professionals and academics. I have communicated in writing with editors and publishers. I have communicated in writing with commercial entities. I have communicated in writing with K-12 educators and students. I have communicated in writing with the general public. I have communicated in writing with staff members. I have no experience with professional written communication. 13 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared. Answer to this question is required Activity reports Policy documents Training/instructional aids Methodology papers (e.g., procedures, guidelines, data documentation) Standardized reports Meeting notes/minutes Abstracts Other written communications None of the above 14 Which of the following describe your experience communicating orally? &nbsp;(Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Communicated technical information to internal audiences within the organization i.e. co-workers, peers, non-management staff members. Communicated information to external audiences outside of the organization i.e. customers, external management officials, contractors, vendors. Conducted training sessions for varied audiences with different levels of expertise in the subject area. Conducted comprehensive briefings and presentations to management officials on sensitive issues or topics. Conducted staff meetings or meetings on program areas; reported information at group meetings; explained program procedures and practices. Served as the main liaison with other departments or organizations. Briefed top management within the organization on a proposal, a program, or to defend a position. I have not had experience in performing this task. 15 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Coworkers/Peers Contractors Senior level officials Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Professionals from outside my organization Members of the public Government officials None of the above 16 Which of the following best describes your experience ensuring that the rights of copyright holders, archives donor, and photographers are conveyed to potential users? Answer to this question is required I have instructed others on the application of copyright rules and procedures for reproduction and use of archives and photographic materials in an archives or museum. I have applied copyright rules and procedures for reproduction and use of archival and photographic materials in an archives or museum. I have assisted with applying copyright rules and procedures pertaining to archival or photographic materials. I have no experience with copyright procedures pertaining to archival or photographic materials. 17 Which of the following digital asset management systems (DAMS) and imaging software programs have you used?&nbsp; (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I am familiar with and have used Open Text and/or other digital asset management systems (DAMS) and have performed digital asset uploads and retrieval as a regular part of my job. I have a general working knowledge of digital asset management systems and software and I have performed digital asset uploads and retrievals. I am familiar with and have used Adobe Creative Suite (i.e. Photoshop, Fireworks and Illustrator.) I have experience with other imaging software programs. I have no experience with digital asset management systems or imaging software. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.