Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirement for this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. I do not have one year of specialized experience as defined in the job announcement (Federal or other) that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade in the Federal government. 2 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in creating the vision, planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable arts institution? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in creating the vision, planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable arts institution. I have had education or training in creating the vision, planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable arts institution, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have assisted in creating the vision, planning and implementing public-oriented educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable arts institution with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have helped create the vision, plan and implement educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable arts institution as a regular part of the job, independently and/or only under general supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have created the vision, supervised and trained others in the planning and implementation of educational programs and activities for a museum or comparable arts institution. 3 Which among the following describes your experience developing policies and procedures for a visitor services program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently determined which policies will most achieve the goals of a visitor services program. I have independently authored standard operating procedures in support of a visitor services program. I have co-authored (with supervisor support) policies of a visitor services program. I have co-authored (with supervisor support) standard operating procedures of a visitor services program. I have edited (with supervisor support) policies of a visitor services program. I have edited (with supervisor support) standard operating procedures in support of a visitor services program. None of the above. 4 Which of the following tasks have you performed to recruit and manage a volunteer program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have recruited, interviewed, evaluated and selected volunteers for a museum with high visitation. I have developed a training program for museum volunteers. I have coordinated a volunteer recognition program. I have evaluated the work of volunteers. I have developed and implemented a volunteer enrichment program. None of the above. 5 Which of the following describes your experience with volunteer program administration? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified the number of volunteers required for specific tasks and assignments and created master schedules. I have assigned volunteers to specific roles. I have scheduled volunteers for their assignments. I have jointly developed policies and procedures for a volunteer program. I have experience scheduling tours or programs for special groups. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience performing financial management for an organization's individual education programs? Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing budget projections for individual education programs, monitoring contractual expenses for individual programs and preparing paperwork for travel costs, honoraria, and other expenses related to the associated programs. I have work experience monitoring contractual expenses for individual programs and prepare paperwork for travel costs, honoraria, and other expenses related to the associated programs. I have work experience preparing paperwork for travel costs, honoraria, and other expenses related to the associated programs. None of the above. 7 Which among the following experiences describes your use of database systems in support of a volunteer program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently created reports such as hours accumulated, training completed, and recognition received using volunteer management software. I have independently developed and managed scheduling calendars within a volunteer management software that support a volunteer program. I have independently used a volunteer database to track hours, training, and recognition. I have independently entered information into a volunteer database. None of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your experience leading, motivating and/or training volunteer of an organization on regular basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assigned work to the volunteers. I have evaluated the training needs of volunteers. I have provided on-the-job training. I have coached and/or mentored volunteers or employees. I have recruited new volunteers. I have interviewed and hired new volunteers. I have developed and/or facilitated training class for volunteers. I have worked with programs and initiatives to retain and develop current volunteers. I have no experience working with volunteers. 9 What is the greatest level of input that you have had in creating a formal volunteer recruitment and retention plan? Answer to this question is required I have independently created a recruitment and retention plan. I have collaborated on the creation of a recruitment and retention plan with a supervisor or co-worker(s). I have contributed information to others who were creating a recruitment and retention plan. I have never created or given input for a recruitment and retention plan. 10 What types of volunteer appreciation and enrichment activities have you developed or organized? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required Workshops and/or informal education session. Tours and/or outings. Structured volunteer appreciation or incentive program. Formal volunteer appreciation events or ceremonies. Informal, on-the-spot recognition. I have not developed or organized volunteer appreciation and enrichment opportunities. 11 From the list of interpersonal communication skills below, select those that you have experience in applying as a regular part of your job. Answer to this question is required Facilitating the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet an objective. Interacting effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to new staff. Administering consequences, holding others accountable to meet program requirements. Persuading others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques in order to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. None of the above. 12 Which of the following describes your experience problem-solving within a museum environment? Answer to this question is required I have experience independently defining and clarifying challenges within the visitor services and/or volunteer programs of a museum or similar cultural organization. I have experience, with supervisor support, defining and clarifying challenges within the visitor services and/or volunteer programs of a museum or similar cultural organization. I have experience independently defining and clarifying challenges, gathering facts, and providing and explaining solutions within the volunteer program of a museum or similar cultural organization. I have experience, with supervisor support, defining and clarifying challenges, gathering facts, and providing and explaining solutions within the volunteer program of a museum or similar cultural organization. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following written communications have you established on behalf of a museum, cultural or educational venue? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Volunteer management handbooks Customer service standards Ethic directives Recruitment plans Visitor welcome brochures None of the above 14 Prepare written information to both internal and external audiences. Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training preparing written information to both internal and external audiences. I have completed training preparing written information to both internal and external audiences, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have prepared written information to both internal and external audiences on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have prepared written information to both internal and external audiences as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have prepared written information to both internal and external audiences as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following indicates the work experience you have had applying oral communication skills? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Teacher/instructor Tour guide/docent. Interpreter. Public speaker. Media liaison. Interviewer. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your demonstrated experience in an internship or fellowship program? Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated successful management and coordination of an internship, fellowship or adult education program. I have managed and coordinated some but not all aspects of an internship, fellowship, or adult education program. I have supported the management and coordination of an internship, fellowship, or adult education program. I have little to no experience managing or coordinating an internship, fellowship, or adult education program. 17 Which of the following best describes your demonstrated experience acting as a liaison within and across departments and programs? Answer to this question is required I have experience acting as a key liaison across multiple departments and programs, ensuring that decisions and information are shared with appropriate persons. I have experience acting as a key liaison across a single department or program. I have no experience acting as a key liaison within and across departments and programs. 18 Which of the following best describes your demonstrated experience implementing existing policies and developing new protocols for program administration? Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated successful implementation of existing protocols and development of new protocols for program administration. I have successfully implemented existing policies, but have not developed new protocols for program administration. I have no experience implementing existing policies or developing new protocols for program administration. 19 Which of the following best describes your documented experience with program evaluation and program data? Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated successful development and implementation of program evaluation, developed evaluation reports that include program data, and management of program data. I have experience developing evaluation reports that include program data and managing program data. I have experience developing evaluation reports and managing program data. I have experience managing program data. I have no experience in these areas. 20 Which of the following best describes your documented experience recruiting diverse candidates for internship and fellowship programs? Answer to this question is required I have demonstrated successful development and implementation of a recruitment strategy to engage diverse candidates for internship, fellowship, or adult education programs. I have demonstrated successful experience implementing a recruitment strategy to engage diverse candidates for internship, fellowship, or adult education programs. I have no experience in this area. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.