Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current National Gallery of Art employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 From the list below, check the task that you have done most often&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Develop quality standards for work accomplishments. Review and inspect competed staff contract work. Resolve problems and taking appropriate corrective action for staffing and contractor work. Coordinate work as needed with other departments. None of the above 3 Which systems have you installed and/or maintained, in a leadership role? That means without supervision, or as the head technical resource on the assignment. Answer to this question is required Mechanical systems Utility systems Sewage ejector systems Pneumatic air systems Vacuum pumps Fire pumps Sump pumps Centrifugal chillers Centrifugal pumps Electronic control systems I have installed and/or maintained the above systems, but not in a leadership role. None of the above systems 4 Do you have experience applying Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, standards and practices to workplace assignments? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following responses most accurately describes your highest level of experience maintaining and operating commercial/industrial air-handling units? Answer to this question is required I have maintained and operated commercial/industrial air-handling unites with supervision and guidance. I have independently maintained and operated commercial/industrial air-handling units. I have overseen and monitored the work of others who are maintaining and operating commercial/industrial air-handling units None of the above statements accurately describes my experience. 6 Which of the following have you used to complete work assignments?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Water flow meter Anemometer Pressure gauges Multimeter Caliper Pyrometer Measuring tape Ultrasound testing equipment Voltmeter Ampmeter Flow hood Infrared scanner Tensiometer Dial indicator None of the above 7 Which of the following tasks do you have experience performing in an industrial environment, as a regular part of your duties? Answer to this question is required Inspection and lubrication of bearings Inspection and replacement of filters Inspection and exercise of valves Tensioning/adjustment/replacement of belts Observation/checks on strainers, traps, seals Inspection of dampers and actuators Inspection of coils Calibration of pneumatic control devices Planning and balancing of air distribution systems Calibration of electronic control devices Inspection of building level network (BLN) or floor level network (FLN) devices None of the above 8 Which of the following utility system components do you have experience maintaining? Answer to this question is required Valves Steam traps Filters Strainers Coils Dampers Control Valves Flow control devices None of the above 9 In which of the following building environments have you had the most experience performing HVAC preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light commercial Heavy commercial Industrial Other environments not listed here None of the above View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.