Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades 1 Select the functions you have performed on a regular and recurring basis relating to managing a program within your organization: Answer to this question is required Provided information on the program to potential participants. Maintained accurate and current records on participants in the program. Researched laws, regulations and other policies relevant to the program. Established and maintained working level contacts within and outside of your organization to effectively administer your program. Created reports, charts, graphs and spreadsheets. Anticipated and planed for future needs. Considered the impact on the customer when taking action or carrying out tasks by asking questions to identify the customer's needs and expectations. Developed or conducted customer surveys. Evaluated and modified services provided. None of the above. 2 Do you have experience working in conjunction with government agencies or other organizations on research or analysis projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience developing content (e.g., survey content). I have experience deriving new estimates from existing data sources. I have experience performing joint analyses with other agencies. I have no experience working in conjunction with other agencies. 3 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 4 Which of the following BEST characterizes your ability to provide leadership during periods of critical threat or severe hardship? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have received training in crisis leadership techniques, but have never led during a crisis response. I have participated as part of a management or leadership team during a crisis response. I have led individuals and small groups through crisis responses. I have led individuals and large groups through crisis responses. 5 Please indicate the types of resources you have allocated across a wide range of security programs? Answer to this question is required Logistical Workforce Operational Financial None of the above 6 From the following list of security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Counter-Intelligence Counter-Terrorism Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance None of the above 7 At what level have you coordinated activities related to anticipating, preventing, and responding to conflict affected areas? Answer to this question is required Across United States Government (USG) With other (non-USG) states With international organizations With civil society organizations involved in conflict and stabilization of fragile states efforts Through multilateral coordination mechanisms With academic institutions None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.