Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Do you have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to next lower Grade in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you assisted in the building management and/or facilities operations and maintenance functions for a large, complex building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following facilities management areas do you have experience? &nbsp; (Check all that apply). Answer to this question is required HVAC systems Energy management Plumbing systems Environmental management Safety and Security Custodial services Painting Electrical Structural Laborer services Pest control None of the above 4 Have you initiated occupational safety awareness and gained commitment through recognition, training, and direct participation on workplace improvements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following responses demonstrates your knowledge of environmental, safety and occupational health principles and practices in order to conduct inspections/surveys? Answer to this question is required I have led environmental, health and safety inspections in industrial environments such as laboratories and construction sites. I have participated as a team member in environmental, health and safety inspections in laboratory or industrial settings. I have conducted environmental, health and safety inspections in primarily office settings. I do not have experience in this area. 6 Do you have experience using automated facility management database systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following best describes your experience developing and using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development? Answer to this question is required I have no experience developing and/or using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development as a regular part of the job. I have had education or training in developing and using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had experience, education or training in developing or using management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning, or staff development. I have developed and used management systems related to production scheduling, workload analysis, resource planning and staff development on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience in both leading and participating in work teams? Answer to this question is required I have led large work teams or group in managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) of application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades and custodial employees? Answer to this question is required I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades and custodial employees on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades and custodial employees, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades and custodial employees as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades and custodial employees. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades and custodial employees as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in developing, administering, and evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as in expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades or custodial contractors? Answer to this question is required I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades or custodial contractors on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades or custodial contractors but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades or custodial contractor as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in organizing, directing, and coordinating the efforts of skilled trades or custodial contractors. I have organized, directed, and coordinated the efforts of skilled trades or custodial contractors as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and /or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience developing, administering, and evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in developing, administering, or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems. I have had education or training in developing, administering or evaluating programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, grounds, and utility systems, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed, administered, and evaluated programs and procedures in the operation and maintenance of buildings, groups, and utility systems as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 13 Which of the following do you have experience advising management on complex issues? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted complex studies relating to management analysis, organizational dynamics, and administrative program management. I have conducted studies of organizational elements and worked to identify problems and approve resource use, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness. I have determined resource requirements (for example, staffing, funding, equipment) based on program or project objectives. I have participated in management studies/surveys for purposes of streamlining processes and improving program operation. I have evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, reports, policies, and directives. I have translated analytical findings into practical recommendations. I have used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and to make recommendations. I have provided advice and possible solutions for dealing with administrative problems in the most effective manner to maintain employee morale, achieve the best utilization of facilities and equipment, and to reduce costs. I have advised management on organizational structures and work methods and procedures. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations. I have served as the organization’s objective arms to help identify and resolve administrative and management problems. I have provided advice on potential congressional reactions to proposed budgets and determine positive course of action in response to congressional action. None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally to people/staff with varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicating orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in communicate orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated orally to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 15 Which of the following do you have experience with communicating orally?&nbsp;(check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have orally presented ideas and decisions, on behalf of my supervisor/manager, to office staff so as to provide directions. I have contacted other agency personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information. I have conducted briefings to upper management under challenging circumstances. (Communication involved answering difficult questions, debating an issue, and providing a point of view. Communication was clear and concise.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience. Audience was responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information to management that was fairly demanding. (Communication involved interaction with the audience that was not responsive to information presented.) I have prepared and exchanged information that was routine in nature. (Communication involved little or no interaction with the audience.) I have communicated with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have communicated administrative information to internal audiences. None of the above. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating in writing to people/staff with vary technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans? Answer to this question is required I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in communicate in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in communicate in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts objectives, and plans, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have communicated in writing to convey information clearly and concisely to negotiate agreement, settlement, solution or consensus, and defend concepts, objectives, and plans, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor senior employee. 17 Which of the following responses reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports or other documents? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.