Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the one response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity. Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, state and local law enforcement officials, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above 4 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of education or experience related to the role of Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters. I have education or training related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters, but have not yet applied it in a work situation. I have performed work related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed work related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Do you have experience communicating findings and concepts to senior level officials and/or other non-technical audiences in writing? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 7 Select the response(s) that describe your experience with data collection activities: Answer to this question is required Developing data collection procedures and/or questionnaires / instruments. Monitoring systems and/or reports. Evaluating systems and/or reports. Implementing quality assurance procedures. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have the education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 I have performed data analyses to support the following objectives: Answer to this question is required Develop long range program planning. Determine overall project execution methodology. Determine specific project activities. Resolve project specific issues. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience in handling administrative or operational management tasks for a given organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in researching and summarizing information from data collected? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Select the one response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity. Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, state and local law enforcement officials, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above 7 Select the tasks you have performed in reporting, documenting or interpreting information to promote or ensure compliance, or to enforce laws or regulations: Answer to this question is required Compiled reports and summary conclusions after record review and analysis. Prepared decision memoranda, official letters or other documentation (e.g., citing violation, determining facts, providing results of inter-agency review and final recommendation) for approval by senior level officials. Produced comprehensive reports of findings and provided authenticated documents or exhibits that support investigation activities in court cases. Explained or interpreted the legal, regulatory or compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it and/or to the general public. Provided guidance on laws and regulations, exceptions, and potential compliance problems. Promoted a compliance program to those whose activities are subject to it. Drafted citations for violations of statutes, regulations or administrative procedures. None of the above. 8 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in managing and coordinating programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices and procedures. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices and procedures. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have the education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have education in performing this task, and have performed it on the job, under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 I have performed data analyses to support the following objectives: Answer to this question is required Develop long range program planning. Determine overall project execution methodology. Determine specific project activities. Resolve project specific issues. None of the above. 11 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of education or experience related to the role of Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters. I have education or training related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters, but have not yet applied it in a work situation. I have performed work related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed work related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.