Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose one answer that best describes your specialized experience and/or directly related education: Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to the Grade 9 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree. I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience, training or education in applying concepts, principles, and procedures used in molecular research? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in applying concepts, principles, and procedures used in molecular research in a laboratory setting. I have had training and some experience in applying concepts, principles, and procedures used in molecular research in a laboratory setting. I have education on the concepts, principles, and procedures used in molecular research. I do not have any experience, training or education in the concepts, principles, and procedures used in in molecular research. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your experience working with non-human, non-microbial tissues for extraction, amplification, and sequencing of the genetic material? Answer to this question is required I have successfully extracted, amplified, and sequenced genetic material from multiple orders as indicated by authorship or co-authorship of a scientific publication based all or in part on data I generated. I have successfully extracted, amplified, and sequenced genetic material from multiple representatives from a single order as indicated by authorship or co-authorship of a scientific publication based all or in part on the data I generated. I have had training in all of these procedures but have only performed some and not with any regularity. I have training but no practical experience extracting, amplifying, and sequencing genetic material from biological materials in a research setting. 7 Which statement BEST describes your experience generating molecular genetic and genomic data (DNA Extractions, PCR reactions, DNA fragments, and DNA sequencing reactions) in the laboratory? Answer to this question is required I have been the PRIMARY data generator, conducted the quality control, analyzed and interpreted the data, and contributed, as indicated by authorship, towards one or more publications utilizing molecular data for genomics, phylogenetics, population genetics, or phylogeography. I have been the PRIMARY data generator, conducted the quality control, and ASSISTED with the analysis and interpretation of the data, and contributed, as indicated by authorship, on one or more publications utilizing molecular data for genomics, phylogenetics, population genetics, or phylogeography. I have been the PRIMARY data generator for other types of molecular genetics projects, but not genomics. I do not have experience generating molecular data as the primary data generator. 8 Which of the following statements best reflects your experience evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management?. Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in evaluating data, preparing reports, and making recommendations to management. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. 9 Which of the following types of software have you used in a research setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Sequence QC, Contig creation & alignment (e.g., FastQC, Sequencher, Geneious). Genomic sequence Alignments (e.g., MAFFT, Clustal, T_coffee, Geneious). Alignment & Assembly (e.g. ALLPATHS, Trinity, Velvet, Spades, MITObim). Metabarcoding/Metagenomics or target capture (e.g., Mothur, QIIME, SAP, CROP, phyluce, Chewbacca, Kraken, USEARCH, VSEARCH) Tree viewing and publication (e.g., FigTree, TreeVector, PhyloExplorer, Geneious, PhyML, BEAST, AI/Photoshop, Bowtie, DAligner, BLAT). Programming Languages (e.g., R, Perl, Python, BASH) Unix Command Line Programming None of the above. 10 Have you managed data, records, and samples for multiple concurrent projects or researchers (3 or more) simultaneously? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you trained or mentored others in the use of molecular genetic laboratory equipment and procedures such as those listed in the previous question? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.