Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of braille and talking book product software quality assurance (QA) principles, concepts, techniques and methods.** Applied knowledge of professional braille and talking book product (or comparable technology) quality assurance (QA) principles concepts, techniques and methods by performing the following: 1) manual and automated quality control testing on braille and talking book products, 2) processes for designing and executing application functionality tests, 3) markup/standards compliance, 4) testing and monitoring of product content and quality, 5) managing documentation of testing defects and related tickets, 6) management of automated testing toolsets and environments, 7) developing testing reporting processes and reports, and 8) developing overall QA procedures. Answer to this question is required As a quality assurance specialist and technical authority on braille and talking book product quality assurance and quality control issues, performed ALL of the above. As a quality assurance specialist and technical authority on braille and talking book product quality assurance and quality control issues, performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. As a quality assurance specialist and technical authority on braille and talking book product quality assurance and quality control issues, performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to monitor quality control operations.** Reviewed special processes, new production steps, difficult testing techniques, and other similar emphasis areas for complex commodities. Maintained records essential for economical and effective operation of a quality control program. This involved the following: 1) reviewed quality assurance test procedures to assure adequacy for the intended purpose; 2) used working knowledge of established quality assurance operating procedures and standards to assure all test procedures and associated quality control records were maintained in accord with approved methods; 3) executed on-site reviews and approval of deviations from quality assurance procedures; 4) handled problems in real time involving problems with non-conformance, test execution, performance, or equipment; and 5) developed and implemented timesaving workarounds. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely performed ALL of the above. Independently and routinely performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above. Independently and routinely performed TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze adverse quality trends and conditions. Analyzed adverse quality trends and conditions, investigated indicators of significant deviations caused by product, system, or process design, material quality, or other significant factors. Coordinated and identified options and developed recommendations; stablished system for corrective; performed integrated and independent examinations to determine quality compliance; planned, performed, and coordinated evaluation efforts utilizing examination techniques, reviewed contractor development procedures, analyzed tools and techniques being used, and related quality assurance test procedures. Answer to this question is required Independently analyzed and investigated indicators of significant deviations caused by product, system, or process design, material quality, and other significant factors. Coordinated and identified options and developed recommendations; stablished system for corrective; performed integrated and independent examinations to determine quality compliance; planned, performed, and coordinated evaluation efforts utilizing examination techniques, reviewed development procedures, analyzed tools and techniques being used, and other related quality assurance test procedures. Routinely executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. This included analyzing and investigating indicators of significant deviations caused by product, system and other significant factors. Coordinating and identifying options and developing recommendations, reviewing, analyzing tools and techniques and related quality assurance test procedures. With minimal supervision, executed multiple work assignments with competing priorities. This included analyzing and investigating indicators of significant deviations caused by product, system, or process design, material quality, and other significant factors. Coordinating and identifying options and developing recommendations, analyzing tools and techniques and related quality assurance test procedures. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation and liaison services. Demonstrated the ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation and liaison services. Answer to this question is required Actively and frequently collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines, varied professions and diverse backgrounds to accomplish complex, mission-related activities. Routinely served as a liaison for the organization with internal and external organizations on quality assurance matters and business process improvement-related matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented and made recommendations related to complex quality assurance issues and business process improvement information to other organizations, senior management, subject matter experts, staff, contractors, vendors and the public and explained various process improvement efforts of the organization. Actively and frequently collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines, varied professions and diverse backgrounds to accomplish mission-related activities. Served as a liaison for the organization on quality assurance matters and business process improvement-related matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented quality assurance issues and business process improvement information to other organizations, management, staff, contractors, and vendors and explained process improvement efforts of the organization. Collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines, varied professions and diverse backgrounds to accomplish quality assurance activities or to resolve problems and issues within an organization/agency. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented quality assurance issues to management, staff, contractors and vendors. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, and well-organized documents, tickets, and other written artifacts. These documents include: 1) quality assurance program documentation; 2) training documents related to quality assurance programs and/or procedures; 3) standard operating procedures; 4) standard testing instructions; 5) formal quality control program records; 6) test readiness review documents; 7) formal test result documents; 8) specification documents involving quality assurance; 9) technical articles or white papers involving quality assurance related research topics; 10) technical reports of finding; and 11) software quality assurance budgets and work plans. Answer to this question is required As author, created EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above documents. As author, created SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above documents. As author, created FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above documents. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).