Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Applicants MUST meet one of the Basic Requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience: (See the Qualifications section of this announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering that was 1) from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology) accredited school, or 2) that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. I completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in choice A. (Note: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in choice A). I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Note: To be considered, applicants MUST submit transcripts and copies of professional registration and/or licensure to verify Basic Requirements by the closing date of the announcement. 2 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-15 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of experience analyzing existing buildings? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task designing small residential projects. I have performed this task designing large residential projects of 20 units or more and/or small commercial projects. I have performed this task as the primary design architect on large residential and mixed-use commercial projects. I have performed this task as the lead design architect on large and complex multi-purpose facilities comprised of multiple buildings. I have performed this task as the lead design architect on many large and complex public, government, and institutional projects comprised of multiple, multi-purpose buildings. As the lead design architect, I have led multi-disciplinary teams performing this task on multiple, large and complex public, government, and institutional projects comprised of multiple, multi-purpose buildings. None of the above. 2 Which of the following facility operations and maintenance management processes have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Predictive Maintenance Preventive Maintenance Asset Management Inventory Control and Management System Operation Demonstration and Training Maintenance Management Library Warranty Management Staffing Studies and Skills Assessment Condition Assessment Organizational Alignment Studies Resource Analysis Gap Analysis Business Process Reengineering Quality Assurance / Quality Control None of the Above 3 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have facilitated an open exchange of ideas. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units. I have approached each problem / situation with a clear perception of organizational and political reality. I have used contacts to build and strengthen internal support bases. I have developed and enhanced alliances with external groups. I have engaged in cross-functional activities. I have found common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs, feelings, and capabilities of different people in different situations. I ensure that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have the authority to speak on behalf of my organization in making decisions in one or more program areas. None of the above. 4 Which statement BEST describes your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals? Answer to this question is required Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely participating in meetings to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience educating, advising, or participating in public forums. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best reflects your level of experience in managing a comprehensive building and facilities management program? Answer to this question is required I have some experience managing major elements of a building management program. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program which included geographically dispersed sites / facilities which were contained in one state. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program which includes geographically dispersed sites / facilities, but which were contained in two states. I have experience in managing a comprehensive building management program that included sites / facilities dispersed across several states. None of the above. 6 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 7 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 8 I have experience where my primary responsibilities were to: Answer to this question is required Develop work schedules Sequence tasks. Identify available resources. Decide among competing priorities. Develop contingency plans. Follow up on or evaluate work progress. None of the above. 9 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your highest level of leadership experience in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required I have no leadership experience in a professional setting. I have led individuals located in a single geographic area for an organization with limited project / program variety. I have led individuals located in domestic and international geographic areas for an organization with limited project / program variety. I have led individuals located in domestic and international geographic areas for an organization with a high degree of project / program variety. I have led individuals located in a single geographic area for an organization with a high degree of project / program variety. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.