Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which tasks have you performed while supervising custodial and labor units? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees Inspected work site for job hazards Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Developed work improvement plans None of the above 2 Have you trained others on the proper procedures for cleaning building areas, removing trash, or delivering items? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising workers who perform custodial duties? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed custodial work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 4 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Select the tasks you have performed when supervising others. Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and personal protective equipment. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Made promotion decisions. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Recommended personnel actions. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 6 In which locations have you inspected the completion of cleaning tasks performed by laborer and custodial crews? Answer to this question is required Offices Restrooms Building Lobbies Police Kiosks Cafeteria Elevators Stair Wells Locker rooms/showers Committee Rooms Storage Areas Floors (i.e. hallways, corridors, stairs, etc.) None of the above 7 Which of the following written documents do you have experience preparing: Answer to this question is required Daily email correspondence to employees, peers, and management Incident Reports Cleaning Reports Performance Evaluations Letters of counseling Quality checklists None of the above 8 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 9 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment. I have performed storage, delivery, and set up activities for furniture and equipment as an apprentice or under close supervision. I have independently stored, delivered, and set up furniture and equipment. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques to store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment. 10 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about moving or cleaning procedures. I have explained moving or cleaning procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 11 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse, loading dock, or like setting? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 12 Which materials handling equipment have you operated without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Banding machines Scales Pallet trucks Flat-bed trucks Chair dollies Hand trucks Grinders Dollies None of the above 13 Which tools or equipment have you used to move large or heavy items? Answer to this question is required Sliders Electrical fork lift Industrial fork lift (load capacity over 10,000 pounds) Pallet jack Hand jack Manual dollies None of the above 14 Do you have experience issuing and receiving goods and materials in a warehouse , loading dock, or like setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Select the topics in which you have completed safety training. Answer to this question is required Forklift operation Fall protection (e.g. harness) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Proper lifting techniques Hazard awareness Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response Standard (Hazwoper) None of the above 16 Select the personal protective equipment (PPE) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Bump caps or hard hats Eye protection Hearing protection Gloves Safety shoes Dust masks None of the above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.