Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Inspected work site for job hazards Prioritized work orders and projects Assigned work orders and projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Provided feedback to employees on methods and techniques None of the above 3 Which tasks have you performed while measuring a room for carpeting? Answer to this question is required Laid out a grid for carpet tiles Determined area for roll carpet installation Estimated carpet needed Estimated tack strips needed None of the above 4 Which tasks have you performed to layout tufting and fabric for the upholstery of tufted furniture? Answer to this question is required Created a diamond pattern Laid out bands in tufting Attached fabric with buttons Lined up fabric patterns None of the above 5 Which tasks have you performed to layout fabric for an upholstery or drapery project using patterned fabric? Answer to this question is required Determined fabric repeat Lined up the pattern focal point Lined up a fabric pattern Lined up a drop pattern None of the above 6 Which fabrics have you used to upholster items or sew draperies? Answer to this question is required Canvas Leather Silk Sheer fabric Nylon Velvet Embroidered material Vinyl Interfacing Black out lining None of the above 7 Which chemicals have you used to install or maintain the appearance of carpet? Answer to this question is required Adhesive remover Pressure sensitive adhesive Spray adhesive Multi-purpose adhesive Latex seam sealer Protective film None of the above 8 Which types of work orders have you read and interpreted? Answer to this question is required Instructions for carpet installation Requests for the repair / recovering of upholstered furniture Requests for the repair / creation of draperies Requests for the installation of blinds Instructions for sound proofing walls None of the above 9 Which of the following upholstery tasks have you independently performed ? Answer to this question is required Making drapes Hanging drapes Designing special pillows for chairs Cutting and patching rugs Laying rugs Laying cushions Hanging venetian blinds Re-taping venetian blinds Installing carpets None of the above 10 For which of the following purposes have you read and interpreted carpet, fabric or upholstery specifications? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required To line up patterns. To install borders/insets in specified locations. To select the durable materials. To select materials with stretch. To remove stains. None of the above. 11 Which tools have you used to upholster items? Answer to this question is required Tack hammer Shears Clinch-it tool Webbing stretcher Tufting tool Pneumatic or manual stapler Screw driver Hog ring upholstery tool Utility knife Impact driver Curved/straight needles Foam cutter None of the above 12 Which machines have you used to install carpet? Answer to this question is required Binding Machine Seaming iron Carpet cutting machine Carpet serger Power stretcher None of the above 13 Which tools or equipment have you used to install draperies? Answer to this question is required Ladders / scaffolding Hydraulic lifts Tape measures Hammer drills Fasteners / Hardware None of the above 14 Which task do you have experience in performing upholster work? Answer to this question is required Carpet Installation Floor Covering Installation Furniture Sew Draperies None of the Above 15 &nbsp; Do you have experience working as a team leader for employees who perform upholstery work? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 16 Please select from the statement (s) below that details your experience/ability to lead.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Leading in the planning, lay out, coordination, direction and review of a variety of unusually intricate carpets and draperies. Restoring complex historical pieces of custom upholstery. Making and hanging custom curtains and drapes. Designing and making special pillows for chairs, cutting, patching and laying rugs and cushions. Reading work orders to determine the types and amounts of materials required to cover workpieces. Assembling garments or textile products. Leading a work crew. None of the above. 17 Please describe your experience with leading in any or all of the following skill areas upholstery, drapery, and floor covering installation.&nbsp; Be very descriptive and include specific details. This experience should be reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 18 Which of the following best describes your highest level of upholstery trade knowledge and experience? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading co-workers to complete a variety of upholster tasks that include making, restoring, and/or creating custom upholstered pieces, and knowledge of upholstery methods. I have assisted co-workers to complete a variety of upholster tasks that include making, restoring, and/or creating custom upholstered pieces, and knowledge of upholstery methods under general supervision and occasional inspection. I have basic experience in completing upholster tasks that include making, restoring, and/or creating custom upholstered pieces, and knowledge of upholstery methods. I have little or no experience in completing upholster tasks. None of the above. 19 Please describe your experience in performing upholsterer work and the methods you used in making, restoring or creating historical pieces ? Please provide your response in the narrative box below. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.