Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 I have been responsible as part of my job for building partnerships among key stakeholders. Answer to this question is required True False 3 Choose the museum collection management application(s) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required MIMSY EMu The Museum System (TMS) Conservation Studio None of these applications 4 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Are you familiar with environmental conditions and museum facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Have you set up a conservation lab from inception? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Have you advocated and raised funds for conservation projects? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you published at least three scholarly pieces, specifically regarding some aspect of art conservation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Have you proposed, implemented and reviewed policies, procedures, and mission objectives for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select your level of experience working in contemporary art? Answer to this question is required I am considered to have extensive education/experience in contemporary art as a Subject Matter Expert. Preforming this as a regular duty as part of my job. I have education/experience with contemporary art, but do not perform it on a regular, recurring basis. I have a limited level of education/experience in contemporary art. 10 Select the variety of materials you have worked with. Answer to this question is required Wood Metals Painted Surfaces Plastics Wax Technology-based works Unconventional materials Outdoor sculpture None of the above. 11 Select your level of experience being published and lecturing/teaching in the field of art conservation and art objects? Answer to this question is required 1-3 publications 5-10 peer-reviewed publications Lectures to conservation field Lectures to the general public Lectures to art specialist Teaching art specialist Teaching in the conservation field Teaching the general public None of the above. 12 I have managed the budget, personnel and conservation treatment functions for an art museum with a collection of 5,000 or more objects. Answer to this question is required True False 13 Which recognized art conservation training program have you attended?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Buffalo State College NYU/IFA Queen’s University Winterthur Museum/University of Delaware UCLA/Getty OTHER: (note: there are international programs not listed here) None of the above. 14 1. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Have you worked closely with the following? Answer to this question is required Curators Artists Scientists Art historians Dealers/galleries Artist estates Registrars and art handlers Publications Communications Development Engineers/Architects None of the above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.