Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of routine and state-of-the-art chemical, physical, optical and/or heritage science methods of analysis.** Applied knowledge of state-of-the-art chemical, physical, and/or heritage science methods of analysis to conduct research in the areas of traditional (e.g., paper and polymers) materials, modern and fugitive media materials (storage media and modern inks), analog audio-visual materials and/or digital materials. Answer to this question is required Independently identified new scientific methods to solve important problems in the field of cultural heritage. Developed and applied routine and state-of-the-art instrumental methods to new and unusual situations in the investigation of material culture. The studies resulted in the transfer of technology between different disciplines. Independently identified and applied technology from an aligned field to the study of cultural materials. Adapted existing techniques to solve problem(s) that could be used in the field of cultural heritage. Applied knowledge to solve complex problems through research and/or laboratory studies that could be used in the field of cultural heritage. Applied knowledge to solve complex problems through research and/or laboratory studies that could be used in the field of cultural heritage. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to design, plan and implement scientific programs, projects or studies.** Planned, developed, implemented, and evaluated programs, projects or procedures. Answer to this question is required Independently identified the actions taken in planning/accomplishing the work of a scientific effort/study involving problems recognized as original and marked importance to the fields of Chemistry, materials science, and/or cultural heritage science. Designed/developed/implemented a research project in these fields that resulted in the establishment of a new research program. Led collaborative cross-functional teams of researchers to address complex scientific or preservation challenges. Scientific studies resulted in a series of documentable, published additions to knowledge, or comparable contributions to currently accepted concepts/technology. Developed/applied novel and sophisticated method, approaches, and technology in the scientific field. Extended/revised/adapted existing methodology and techniques to new and unusual situations. Trained and mentored others so they are able to actively and independently pursue and develop complex research projects stemming from your own work. Independently identified the actions to be taken in accomplishing the work of a scientific effort or study involving problems recognized as original and marked importance to the fields of Chemistry, materials science, and/or cultural heritage science. Designed, developed and implemented a research project in the fields of Chemistry, materials science, and/or cultural heritage science that lead to a change in the direction of larger research program. Participated in collaborative cross-functional teams of researchers to address complex scientific or preservation challenges. Scientific studies resulted in a series of documentable, published modifications of currently accepted concepts or technology. Applied novel and sophisticated techniques to new and unusual situations in the scientific field. Extended, revised, and adapted existing methodology and techniques. Trained and mentored others to be able to complete complex scientific research projects and methodologies under supervision. Independently identified the actions to be taken in accomplishing the work of a scientific effort or study in the fields of Chemistry, materials science, and/or cultural heritage science. Designed, developed and implemented a research project in the fields of Chemistry, materials science, and/or cultural heritage science as part of larger, established research program. Participated in collaborative research projects to address scientific or preservation challenges. Scientific studies resulted in a series of documentable, published applications of currently accepted concepts or technology. Conducted complete projects or studies that entailed complicated and interacting factors, concepts, or conditions in the scientific field. Trained and mentored others on basic scientific techniques and methodologies. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of the material and/or heritage science discipline.** Applied knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of the scientific discipline, including analytical and investigative methods, advanced data analytics and visualization, evaluation, measurement and assessment techniques to design studies, manage projects, and/or carry out investigations. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of the scientific discipline to difficult and complex issues related to chemical analysis of materials, (e.g., designed a major scientific study or project evaluation for an organization; OR has developed recommendations on complex and controversial scientific issues critical to the organization's programs). Applied knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of the scientific discipline to issues related to chemical analysis of materials (e.g., applied established concepts in carrying out difficult tests or investigating background data for scientific issues involved in broad studies; OR investigated and prepared analyses of difficult occurrences/problems/cases in the subject field). Applied knowledge of established principles, concepts, and techniques of the scientific discipline (e.g., applied established concepts in carrying out difficult tests or investigated background data for scientific issues involved in a broad study. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of current preservation and conservation research in the field of cultural heritage or material science.** Applied knowledge of current preservation research in the field of cultural heritage or material science to assess treatments and preservation of collection materials including: 1) tradition (e.g., paper and polymers), 2) modern and fugitive media materials, 3) analog audiovisual materials and/or 4) digital materials. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive knowledge in one or more areas of cultural heritage or material science of THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above materials. Demonstrated extensive knowledge in one or more areas of cultural heritage or material science of TWO (2) of the above materials. Demonstrated knowledge in one or more areas of cultural heritage or material science of ONE (1) of the above materials. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate and interact with others. Interacted effectively with other professional personnel on various levels. This may have included: discussing scientific issues at appropriate forums, delivering briefings and presentations on findings and recommendations, defending positions, interpretations, and policies, and training others in scientific methods. Answer to this question is required Made presentations and participated in industry/government meetings to defend/explain conclusions resulting from chemical analysis of materials related to preservation of cultural heritage materials. Interacted with managers, scientists, and other professionals at all levels internally within an organization (e.g., in government, academia, or in private industry) and externally. Explained interpretations and policy positions to managers, scientists and other professionals. Made presentations at staff meetings and routine briefings on technical issues. Trained others in scientific methods. Participated in industry/government meetings to defend/explain conclusions resulting from chemical analysis of materials related to preservation of cultural heritage materials. Interacted with managers, scientists, and other professionals at all levels internally within an organization (e.g., in government, academia or in private industry) and externally. Explained interpretations and policy positions to managers, scientists and other professional. Made presentations at staff meetings or routine briefings and trained others in scientific methods. Participated in industry/government meetings to defend/explain laboratory research in scientific forums. Interacted with managers, scientists, and other professionals internal within an organization (e.g., in government, academia or in private industry).to brief them on technical matters and trained others in scientific methods. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to prepare reports, advanced data analytics and data visualizations, and written studies. Prepared organizational guidelines and procedures on aspects of an organization's scientific programs, prepared reports analyzing laboratory data and other findings, performed and presented advanced data analytics and visualization and/or wrote peer-reviewed publications. Answer to this question is required Wrote extensive (5 or more) scientific and technical reports on chemical analysis that analyzed laboratory data and other technical information and developed original approaches to significant scientific and complex issues and integrated results of substantial modification to standard techniques. Wrote peer-reviewed publications on chemical analysis. Wrote scientific and technical reports on chemical analysis that analyzed laboratory data and other technical information and developed original approaches to scientific and other issues and integrated results of substantial modification to standard techniques. Wrote technical reports on chemical analysis that analyzed laboratory data and other technical information and integrated extensive data. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).