Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to supervise, develop and lead a workforce.** Supervised, developed and led a workforce. In doing so: 1) established performance standards, guidelines, &amp; expectations; 2) directed daily operations, assigned work, &amp; evaluated performance &amp; outcomes; 3) provided coaching, mentoring, &amp; informal/formal feedback; 4) resolved employee concerns, complaints, &amp; grievances promptly; 5) advised &amp; counseled staff on work-related &amp; administrative matters; 6) reviewed &amp; approved/denied leave &amp; other personnel actions; 7) oversaw processes to ensure efficiency, compliance, &amp; effectiveness; and 8) communicated organizational goals, priorities, &amp; expectations to align with mission objectives. Answer to this question is required Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional group within an agency or organization and in so doing, conducted ALL of the activities listed above. Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional group within an agency or organization and in so doing, conducted SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the activities listed above. Led, supervised, and managed a multi-disciplinary professional group within the public or private sector and in so doing, conducted FOUR (4) or FIVE(5) of the activities listed above. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, methods, and techniques in a physical science field.** Has advanced knowledge of and experience applying the principles, theories, concepts, methods, and techniques in a field of physical science (e.g., chemistry, materials science, physics, engineering, etc.) Answer to this question is required Applied extensive and various knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of a scientific discipline to difficult and complex issues (e.g., designed a major scientific study or project evaluation for an agency or organization program; or has developed recommendations on complex and controversial scientific issues critical to the entity's programs). Applied specialized knowledge of the established principles, concepts, and techniques of a scientific discipline (e.g., applied established concepts in carrying out difficult tests or investigating background data for scientific issues involved in a broad study; or investigated and prepared analyses of difficult occurrences/problems/cases in the subject field). Applied broad knowledge of the established principles, concepts, and techniques of a scientific discipline (e.g., applied established concepts in carrying out difficult tests or investigating background data for scientific issues involved in a broad study; or investigated and prepared analyses of difficult occurrences/problems/cases in the subject field). None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to execute complex scientific research, technology assessment, and development activities that address a wide-range of preservation-related issues.** Planned, developed, and conducted scientific research, investigations, tests, and evaluation of equipment, research, or systems where critical problems needed to be resolved and existing methods were inadequate or otudated. Answer to this question is required Planned, developed, executed, and reviewed complex scientific research and technologies to solve critical analytical challenges and problems. Developed and applied novel and sophisticated methods, approaches, and technology, as well as revised and adapted existing methodology and techniques to new and unusual situations in the scientific field. Planned, developed, and executed complex scientific research and technologies that addressed challenges. Developed and applied novel methods, approaches, and technology or revised and adapted existing methodology and techniques to new and unusual situations in the scientific field. Planned, developed, and executed scientific research that addressed challenges. Revised and/or adapted existing methodology and techniques in the scientific field. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to manage projects.** Demonstrated experience in managing scientific projects. In doing so: 1) worked with collaborators to establish scope and requirements; 2) established project schedules; 3) identified resource and funding needs; 4) balanced competing requirements; 5) ensured accountability of collaborators in meeting project deadlines and milestones; 6) ensured timeliness of project deliverables; 7) managed project procedures and made necessary adjustments; 8) evaluated the impact of decisions on quality, risks, schedules, funds, and outcomes; 9) collected and aggregated project findings and data; and 10) prepared and presented reports using gathered data. Answer to this question is required Managed multiple scientific projects, collaborating with colleagues and peers within and outside of an agency or organization to meet project milestones and deadlines. Experience encompasses ALL of the above. Managed multiple scientific projects, collaborating with colleagues and peers within and outside of an agency or organization to meet project milestones and deadlines. Experience includes EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the above. Managed multiple scientific projects, collaborating with colleagues and peers within and outside of an agency or organization to meet project milestones and deadlines. Experience includes SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products about research, management, and/or laboratory activities for diverse audiences. Documents included: 1) policies; 2) scientific research articles and proposals; 3) technical reports and findings; 4) statements of work; 5) safety procedures; 6) standard operating procedures (SOPs); 7) grant proposals; and 8) formal and informal correspondence. Answer to this question is required As a job responsibility, FREQUENTLY wrote various research, management, and/or laboratory documents, including ALL of the above. As a job responsibility, ROUTINELY wrote various research, management or laboratory documents, including SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above. As a job responsibility, ROUTINELY or OCCASIONALLY wrote various research, management or laboratory documents, including FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to provide consultation or liaison duties. Provided consultation or liaison duties to exchange information and interact collaboratively with persons inside and outside of an agency or organization, including decision-makers and their staff, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or customers. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in scientific groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as the principal liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained or presented specialized or technical information to groups and/or individuals of varying backgrounds or levels of experience inside AND outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional standing through various methods such as participation in scientific groups and outside conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations to share resources and information. This included serving as a liaison for outreach programs at professional conferences and seminars. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside and/or outside an organization. Developed and maintained professional standing through participation in scientific groups, conferences, seminars, and/or professional organizations. Recommended changes in policies, procedures and/or workflows to others and explained technical information to individuals and groups inside an organization. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).