Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science and music librarianship.** Applied professional knowledge of music librarianship and information management principles, concepts and techniques to carry out library functions and programs. Answer to this question is required Has experience applying knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science to routine music library functions (e.g. reference and cataloging). Has experience applying knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science to portions of routine music library functions or program Has LIMITED experience applying knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of library science to library functions or programs. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of integrated library systems and other technology tools relevant to performing arts collections. ** Used integrated library systems and other technology tools relevant to the performing arts collections to conduct library research and provide reference services. Answer to this question is required Used knowledge of integrated library systems and the latest technology tools relevant to performing arts collections to conduct library research and provide reference services. Used knowledge of integrated library systems and technology tools relevant to performing arts collections to conduct research OR provide reference services. Used LIMITED knowledge of integrated library systems and technology tools relevant to performing arts collections to provide reference services. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of the history and literature of music. ** Used knowledge of the history and literature of music and music resources in a variety of formats to provide research and reference services to library patrons. Answer to this question is required Has experience using information resources and up-to-date and conventional reference/locator tools in a music library, including some of which maybe in a foreign language. Has BASIC experience using conventional information resources and reference/locator tools in a music library. Has LIMITED experience using conventional information resources and reference/locator tools in a music library. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide reference and research services in the performing arts. Provided research and reference services to a diverse clientele onsite and through remote access. Answer to this question is required Responded to research requests for specialized information and provided music reference services. Provided general music reference and research services. Provided general music reference services. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized written products (e.g. research guides, finding aids, responding to reference inquiries, program notes, or reports). This included targeting the amount, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the needs of the audience. Answer to this question is required Wrote and edited professional/technical documents on specialized topics in the field of music (e.g. research guides, finding aids, reports, responses to reference inquiries, and program notes). Wrote routine correspondence, responses to reference inquiries, and reports in the field of music. Assisted in writing professional/technical documents in the field of music (e.g. research guides, finding aids, reports, responses to reference inquiries, or program notes). None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).