Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 4 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 5 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. [ERROR rendering field] 7 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 7.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 7.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. In 700 or less characters, please use your education, experience and/or a combination of both to answer the following scenario-based questions.&nbsp; 8 You have already processed a new hire to be appointed to a permanent competitive position and have received their official personnel folder (OPF) from their former agency. While reviewing their electronic OPF you notice a discrepancy: the new hire indicated a prior federal separation on their SF-144, but the SF-50 indicating the separation is missing from the folder. 1. W hat needs to be reviewed and corrected in this instance? 2. What documentation do you need? 3. Who can you contact to retrieve the missing information? Maximum length of 700 characters. Answer to this question is required In 700 or less characters, please use your education, experience or a combination of both to answer the following scenario-based question. 9 A Senior HR Specialist has received a request from the supervisor to process a promotion for an employee from a GS-13 position to a GS-14 position. As you review the position description, you notice that the position is in a different state, and the position is a supervisory position. You also notice that the position requires random drug testing and a non-critical sensitive/high risk background investigation. 1. What information must you input or change in the system to ensure that the promotion is processed successfully according to the position description provided by the senior HR Specialist? 2. Are there any other actions you must take after processing the promotion? Maximum length of 700 characters. Answer to this question is required In 700 or less characters, please use your education, experience or a combination of both to answer the following scenario-based question. 10 You are actively managing 6 actions such as 3 new hires, 1 reassignment and 2 separations. Also, Time and Attendance cutoff is at 2pm today and those 6 actions need to be sent to the Senior HR Specialist by 9am the next morning. A senior leader bypasses your supervisor and emails you directly, demanding an immediate update on the status of the PIV card for their new hire. While responding to the senior leader, you receive a system generated notice at 1:30pm that 3 timecards have not been completed or approved in the system. 1. What task takes priority? 2. How do you respond to the senior leader? 3. How do you manage your workload against the deadline? Maximum length of 700 characters. Answer to this question is required In 700 or less characters, please use your education, experience or a combination of both to answer the following scenario-based question. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).