Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Applicants must be U.S. citizens, at least 18 years of age, and eligible to obtain and maintain a security clearance. In addition, applicants must demonstrate that they meet at least one of the following eligibility pathways: (1) current undergraduate students with a minimum of 60 credit hours, enrolled at least part-time, and maintaining a 3.2 GPA; (2) current graduate students enrolled at least part-time with a minimum 3.2 GPA; (3) recent graduates who completed an accredited degree within two years of the internship start date with a minimum 3.2 GPA; or (4) U.S. military veterans with a high school diploma (or equivalent) who have served on active duty within the preceding two years. If you do not meet these criteria, please do not continue as you are not eligible for the program. 1 Please select the internship cycle for which you are applying. Answer to this question is required Spring 2027 (January - May) Summer 2027 (May - August) 2 Which internship location do you prefer? Answer to this question is required Domestic internship in Washington, D.C. Overseas internship at a qualifying U.S. embassy or mission (location determined by the U.S. Department of State) Either option is acceptable 3 Are you a U.S. Citizen? Note: You must have a Social Security Number (SSN) at the time of applying Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Are you at least 18 years of age? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 What is your GPA on a 4.0 Scale?&nbsp; If you are a graduate student and do not have a GPA at the moment, please provide the GPA from your undergraduate school.&nbsp; If you are a veteran and do not have a GPA, please enter &ldquo;N/A.&rdquo; A GPA is not an eligibility requirement for veterans. Maximum length of 10 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Are you currently enrolled as a part-time or full-time student or have been accepted for enrollment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Do you attend an accredited college or university or community college? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Will you have completed 60 or more undergraduate semester credit hours or 90 or more undergraduate quarter hours? ** If your school does not use semester or quarter hours then you must have completed two full years of undergraduate school or community college by the beginning of your internship. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Will you have had a break in classes of more than five months at the time you begin the internship?&nbsp; Except for recent graduates and veterans, applicants who respond &ldquo;Yes&rdquo; should not proceed, as they are not eligible for the program. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you graduated from an undergraduate or graduate degree program at an accredited college, community college, or university (two- to four-year institution) within the two years preceding the start date of the Student Internship Program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Are you a veteran of the United States Armed Forces who possesses a high school diploma (or equivalent) and has served on active duty, for any length of time, within the two years preceding the start date of the Student Internship Program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 If selected for an internship, I confirm that I am available to work in person for 40 hours per week for 10 consecutive weeks. This meets the U.S. Department of State&rsquo;s work requirement and may also be required by my college or university to receive academic credit. I also agree to travel to Washington, D.C., to participate in the mandatory three-day orientation, and to travel to my assigned internship location (domestic or overseas). Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Have you previously participated in or are you currently participating in the U.S. Department of State&rsquo;s Student Internship Program, U.S. Foreign Service Internship Program (UFSIP), Thomas R. Pickering Foreign Affairs Fellowship, Charles B. Rangel Graduate Fellowship Program, Foreign Affairs Information Technology Fellowship, or William D. Clarke Sr. Diplomatic Security Fellowship? (Note: If your internship was in the Virtual Student Federal Service (VSFS) or participated in the Rangel Summer Enrichment Program, you are eligible.) If the answer is yes, please do not continue as you are not eligible for the program. Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Highest Education Level Completed Answer to this question is required. Please select the highest level of education you will have completed by the end of your Spring 2026 semester. For example, if you are an undergraduate who will be a junior by the Spring 2027, you will select two years of college. Answer to this question is required High School Graduate (04) One Year College (08) Two Years College (09) Associate Degree (10) Three Years College (11) Four Years College (12) Bachelor Degree (13) One Year of Post-Graduate Degree (14) Masters Degree (17) Doctorate Degree (21) Post Doctorate (22) The following questions pertain to your educational background. Undergraduate Study Please type the name of your school or major. 15 Please type out your undergraduate school or community college. Maximum length of 100 characters. The following questions pertain to your undergraduate majors and minors. Please type the name of your major or minor. If you have more than two majors or minors, please list the ones that are most relevant to your application. If you are a veteran and have not attended an undergraduate program, please enter &ldquo;N/A.&rdquo; Undergraduate or graduate study is not an eligibility requirement for veterans. 16 Please type out your first undergraduate major. Maximum length of 100 characters. 17 Please type out your second undergraduate major or minor. Maximum length of 100 characters. 18 Please indicate your undergraduate Grade Point Average on a 4.0 scale (for example, 3.4). 19 Start Undergraduate Study: 20 End Undergraduate Study: Graduate Study 21 Please type out your graduate school. Maximum length of 100 characters. The following questions pertain to your graduate majors and minors. Please type the name of your major or minor. If you have more than two majors or minors, please list the ones that are most relevant to your application. If you are a veteran and have not attended an undergraduate program, please enter &ldquo;N/A.&rdquo; Undergraduate or graduate study is not an eligibility requirement for veterans. 22 Please type out your first graduate major. Maximum length of 100 characters. 23 Please type out your second graduate major or minor. Maximum length of 100 characters. 24 Please indicate your graduate Grade Point Average on a 4.0 scale (for example, 3.4). 25 Start Graduate Study: 26 End Graduate Study: 27 Do you have, or have you had, a Security Clearance? Answer to this question is required Yes 27.1 If "Yes", please provide the type of clearance, date of clearance and who issued the clearance. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 28 Please choose your primary field of interest that you would want your internship and work experience be aligned to: Answer to this question is required African Affairs Arms Control and International Security Building Design and Construction Commercial Advocacy Conflict Resolution and Stabilization Counternarcotics Counterterrorism Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Cybersecurity Operations Cyberspace and Digital Policy Data Science Defense Industrial Base Disaster and Humanitarian Response East Asian and Pacific Affairs Economics Emerging Technology Environmental Sciences European and Eurasian Affairs Facilities Management Finance Global Public Health Human Resources and Talent Management Human and Natural Rights Information Technology International Governmental Organizations International Labor Affairs and U.S. Workers International Law Interpretation/Translation Services Journalism Legislative Affairs Logistics Management, Operations, Contracting, Procurement Marketing and Communications Migration National Security Near Eastern Affairs Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Reindustrialization and U.S. Workforce Development Religious Freedom Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Security Engineering and Countermeasures South and Central Asian Affairs Western Hemisphere Affairs 29 Please choose your secondary field of interest that you would want your internship and work experience be aligned to: Answer to this question is required African Affairs Arms Control and International Security Building Design and Construction Commercial Advocacy Conflict Resolution and Stabilization Counternarcotics Counterterrorism Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Cybersecurity Operations Cyberspace and Digital Policy Data Science Defense Industrial Base Disaster and Humanitarian Response East Asian and Pacific Affairs Economics Emerging Technology Environmental Sciences European and Eurasian Affairs Facilities Management Finance Global Public Health Human Resources and Talent Management Human and Natural Rights Information Technology International Governmental Organizations International Labor Affairs and U.S. Workers International Law Interpretation/Translation Services Journalism Legislative Affairs Logistics Management, Operations, Contracting, Procurement Marketing and Communications Migration National Security Near Eastern Affairs Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Reindustrialization and U.S. Workforce Development Religious Freedom Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Security Engineering and Countermeasures South and Central Asian Affairs Western Hemisphere Affairs Statements of Interest 30 Please explain why you selected your fields of interest and how your academic studies, work experience, or personal responsibilities have prepared you to contribute in this area. Highlight specific skills, knowledge, or experiences that demonstrate your ability to support U.S. national interests in a results-oriented, mission-driven environment. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 31 Please describe your interest in public service and provide examples that demonstrate your commitment to serving the United States and the American people. Competitive responses should reflect professionalism, integrity, accountability, commitment to serving your country, and a strong work ethic. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 32 Please describe how a paid internship at the U.S. Department of State would support your career goals and interest in public service. Include how this experience would prepare you to contribute to advancing U.S. security and prosperity, protecting national interests, and strengthening U.S. leadership globally. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 33 Please describe any aspects of your background, qualifications, or experiences that strengthen your application, including relevant language skills, technical expertise, leadership or volunteer experience, and examples of resilience, grit, adaptability, or problem-solving. Clearly state what you would contribute to the Department and what you hope to gain from the experience.&nbsp; Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 34 I certify that all the information provided in this application is true, correct, complete and made in good faith. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.