Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: - Assisting Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) with duties not limited to interpretating requirements and contractor performance;&nbsp; - Coordinating programs for large facilities including electrical and HVAC systems, planning maintenance activities, and developing preventive maintenance programs; - Conducting inspections of various facility systems and evaluating areas of opportunity and improvement;&nbsp; and - Supporting the management of personnel responsible for repairs and maintenance of mechanical, electrical and facility systems. 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Individual Occupational Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university in engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration. I have an graduate degree from an accredited college or university in engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration. I have experience with following types of qualifying specialized experienced: Managing a maintenance program for office or apartment building complexes, hospitals, recreation facilities, military, or other special-purpose installations, including planning maintenance activities, and developing preventive maintenance programs. Conducting surveillance activities over construction and maintenance operations performed by a variety of private contractors, including reviewing project plans and specifications for workability, informing contractors of construction and reporting requirements, and supervising operations for conformance with project plans. Performing maintenance or construction work, including estimating material and labor costs for a variety of construction or maintenance projects (such as construction or maintenance of brick, frame, structural steel, reinforced concrete, and other type structures ranging from one- or two-story buildings to larger structures), directing actual work operations, and maintaining appropriate contacts with the organization funding the project. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Select the response that most closely matches your experience directing the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of HVAC systems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience directing the work of employees. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I provided instruction or assistance to employees about the proper way to perform a task or complete a work order. I assigned work to employees and provided instruction about the proper way to perform tasks or complete a work order. I assigned work to employees, provided instruction about the proper way to complete a work order, and monitored completed work for quality. 4 Select the activities you have performed in implementing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). Answer to this question is required I have provided input into developing SOPs. I have written SOPs. I have implemented SOPs. I have performed training to properly use SOPs. I have performed quality control for SOPs. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: - Serving as a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent;&nbsp; - Managing large facilities programs including electrical and HVAC systems, planning maintenance activities, and developing preventive maintenance programs;&nbsp; - Conducting inspections of critical facility systems and recommending areas of opportunity and improvement;&nbsp; and - Leading personnel responsible for repairs and maintenance of mechanical, electrical and facility systems . 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Individual Occupational Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university in engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration. I have an graduate degree from an accredited college or university in engineering, industrial arts, property management, or business administration. I have experience with following types of qualifying specialized experienced: Managing a maintenance program for office or apartment building complexes, hospitals, recreation facilities, military, or other special-purpose installations, including planning maintenance activities, and developing preventive maintenance programs. Conducting surveillance activities over construction and maintenance operations performed by a variety of private contractors, including reviewing project plans and specifications for workability, informing contractors of construction and reporting requirements, and supervising operations for conformance with project plans. Performing maintenance or construction work, including estimating material and labor costs for a variety of construction or maintenance projects (such as construction or maintenance of brick, frame, structural steel, reinforced concrete, and other type structures ranging from one- or two-story buildings to larger structures), directing actual work operations, and maintaining appropriate contacts with the organization funding the project. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Select the response that most closely matches your experience directing the work of employees performing installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of HVAC systems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience directing the work of employees. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I provided instruction or assistance to employees about the proper way to perform a task or complete a work order. I assigned work to employees and provided instruction about the proper way to perform tasks or complete a work order. I assigned work to employees, provided instruction about the proper way to complete a work order, and monitored completed work for quality. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the duties that you performed to solicit, analyze, negotiate, award, and administer security and facility management contracts. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and assisted with customer's requirement development. Developed procurement strategies. Solicited and analyzed proposals. Negotiated with vendors. Drafted contract documentation for award. Performed contract administration tasks, such as issuing modifications, approving invoices, close-out, etc. None of the above. 2 Select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education in conducting inspections of critical facility systems to monitor operations and maintenance activities. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 3 Which facilities management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Reviewed property audit findings Coordinated repair of facilities Monitored facilities utilities consumption Arranged for the storage and distribution of furnishings None of the above 4 Which facilities management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Reviewed facility condition assessments. Coordinated repair of facilities and grounds. Monitored facilities utilities consumption or resource efficiency. Arranged for the storage and distribution of supplies and materials. None of the above 5 Choose the building systems for which you have performed routine or repetitive maintenance tasks? Answer to this question is required Commercial fire detection systems Piping systems (HVAC, pneumatic) Electrical systems HVAC systems None of the above 6 I have made binding decisions within my scope of authority on a regular and recurring basis to resolve project issues in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required True False 7 Select the elements of a project plan that you have developed. Answer to this question is required Scope of work Schedule of project activities Milestones and deadlines Project budgets Required resources Quality standards Safety plan None of the above 8 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 9 I have explained technical information to non-technical audiences in a way that increased their understanding of the topic or issue. Answer to this question is required True False 10 Have you written technical information in a way that non-technical audiences easily understood the information? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.