Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In addition to the Basic Requirements, applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience in or equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as follows: 1) Experience in providing engineering and technical advice on issues related to telecommunications technologies and policy; 2) Experience in analyzing radio frequency (RF) and broadband telecommunications technologies or applications to identify issues regarding their coverage, performance, and impacts on the use of the radio spectrum; 3) Experience in conducting and reviewing a variety of radiofrequency (RF) spectrum management and telecommunications systems studies and analyses, for example, operating frequencies, power, emissions, throughput, latency, error rate, and quality of service; 4) Experience in reviewing, evaluating, writing, and providing recommendations regarding the engineering implications of legislation, rulemaking proposal, licensing applications, position papers, reports, studies, or analyses; 5) Experience in representing and communicating technical and engineering positions, through production of guidance materials, and in high-level meetings and presentations. 6) Experience supporting consequential projects and/or contracts with deadlines and milestones, including familiarity with system troubleshooting, support, development, and maintenance. 1 I have one year of specialized experience as outlined above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 15 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In addition to the Basic Requirements, applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience in or equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14) in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as follows: &nbsp; 1) Experience in providing engineering and technical advice on issues related to telecommunications technologies and policy; 2) Experience in analyzing radio frequency (RF) and broadband telecommunications technologies or applications to identify issues regarding their coverage, performance, and impacts on the use of the radio spectrum; 3) Experience in directing, conducting and reviewing a variety of radiofrequency (RF) spectrum management and telecommunications systems studies and analyses, for example, operating frequencies, power, emissions, throughput, latency, error rate, and quality of service; 4) Experience in reviewing, evaluating, writing, and providing recommendations regarding the engineering implications of legislation, rulemaking proposals, licensing applications, position papers, reports, studies, or analyses; 5) Experience in providing guidance to management regarding complex engineering and regulatory issues; 6) Experience in representing and communicating technical and engineering positions, through production of guidance materials, and in high-level meetings and presentations. 7) Experience managing consequential projects and/or contracts with deadlines and milestones, including familiarity with system troubleshooting, support, development, and maintenance. 1 I have one year of specialized experience as outlined above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Choose a method of consideration- Please select one choice from the following: Answer to this question is required (MP-only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) AND/OR I am a veteran seeking consideration under VEOA as verified via my submitted DD-214. VEOA candidates are preference eligibles (per 5 USC 2108) OR veterans who were separated from the armed forces after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered to be eligible. Please consider me through the merit promotion process in which I will compete with all status applicants. (DEU-only) I am not a Federal employee. Please consider me only through the Delegated Examining process in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. NOTE: This process only allows consideration of the top ranked candidates, and veteran's preference rules apply. If selected through this process, you may have to serve another probationary period and your tenure group may be affected. (MP and DEU) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action) AND/OR I am a veteran seeking consideration under VEOA as verified via my submitted DD-214. VEOA candidates are preference eligibles (per 5 USC 2108) OR veterans who were separated from the armed forces after 3 or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions. Veterans who were released shortly before completing a 3-year tour are considered to be eligible. I would also like to be considered through the Delegated Examining process as described above in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. Please consider me via both of the methods described. (NC-only) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, as indicated on my Standard Form 50 (Notice of Personnel Action). I am eligible for noncompetitive consideration because I am currently holding or have held a permanent grade that is equal to or above the full performance level/promotion potential of the position being advertised OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (VRA) (applies to positions at GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran (DAV), Former Peace Corps Volunteer (PCV), Former Peace Corps Employee (PCE), Military Spouse (MISP) or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. (NC and DEU) I am a Federal employee in the career competitive service with permanent or conditional tenure or a prior Federal employee with reinstatement rights, that is eligible for noncompetitive consideration as described above OR I am requesting to be considered non-competitively based upon one or more of the following non-competitive hiring authorities: Veterans' Recruitment Authority (VRA) (applies to positions at GS-11 and below), Schedule A Disability, 30% or More Disabled Veteran (DAV), Former Peace Corps Volunteer (PCV), Former Peace Corps Employee (PCE), Military Spouse (MISP) or any other additional non-competitive authorities as authorized by OPM. I would also like to be considered through the Delegated Examining process as described above in which I will compete with all non-status applicants. Please consider me via both of the methods described. 7 Basic Requirements. Choose the response(s) that best describes your education/experience in accordance with the requirements for the engineering position at this level: Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree which includes differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience by my current registration as a professional engineer by any state, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience and have successfully passed the Engineering-In-Training (EIT) examination, or written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Board of Engineering Examiners in the various states, the District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science including engineering courses specified in Choice 1. I have completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology, or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision. I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirements as described above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).