Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following supervisory responsibilities have you performed while managing communications staff at multiple pay levels? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have supervised employees performing duties such as writing, editing, social media management, website management, and media relations. I have assigned work, set priorities, and ensured staff met project deadlines and performance expectations. I have conducted performance evaluations and provided coaching, feedback, or performance improvement guidance. I have overseen staffing activities, including interviewing, selecting, onboarding, or training new employees. I have resolved conflicts, addressed conduct issues, or taken corrective or disciplinary actions when necessary. I have monitored workload distribution to ensure equity and balance across multiple levels of staff. I have not performed supervisory duties. 3 Which of the following contractor or vendor management responsibilities have you performed? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have managed contractors in areas such as public relations, communications strategy, or media outreach. I have overseen vendors such as graphic designers, photographers, videographers, or creative production teams. I have managed contracts or partner firms providing analytics, research, or media measurement services. I have coordinated scopes of work, deliverables, budgets, or timelines with contractors or vendors. I have evaluated contractor or vendor performance and recommended continuation, modification, or termination. I have not managed contractors or vendors. 4 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided supervision or lead subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's or teammate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate or teammates employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates or teammates . I have assigned work to subordinates or teammates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates or teammates . I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and/or coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following public affairs or communications tasks have you performed in your position? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have successfully pitched and placed stories with top-tier news media. I have organized news conferences. I have organized media tours to promote an event or project. I have written, designed and produced content for digital and print distribution. I have edited and approved content for digital and print distribution. I have prepared briefing material for senior management or public officials. I have conducted oral presentations. I have written news releases. None of the above. 6 Which of the following describes your experience creating communications plans? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led a team of employees to create and successfully execute communications plans. I have created and executed communications plans on my own. I have participated as a team member in creating and executing communications plans. I have participated as a team member in executing communications plans, as directed by my supervisor None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience communicating in writing with internal customers, members of the public, private organization, media and international sources? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience as it relates to preparing materials for publication? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training to prepare materials for publication. I have completed formal education or training to prepare materials for publication but have not performed it on the job. I have assisted with preparing journal articles, monographs, and/or edited collection materials under close supervision by a senior employee. I have independently coordinated some or all production stages for journal articles, monographs, and/or edited collections, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Producing journal articles, monographs, and/or edited collections has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely. 9 Which of the following statements describes your ability to communicate effectively both in verbal and written communications in order to explain and promote assigned program initiatives? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups within and outside of my organization. I have experience communicating orally to convey information concisely and clearly. I have prepared written reports documenting decisions and recommendations. I have experience reviewing and editing technical and/or non-technical materials, identifying inadequacies in format, grammar, or construction accordance with accepted standards. I have maintained effective working relationships with staff at all levels. I have dealt calmly and effectively in high stress situations (tight deadlines, hostile individuals, etc.) I do not have communication experience listed above. 10 Which of the following actions demonstrate expertise and skill in creating meaningful communication interchanges with individuals and groups who hold antagonistic or opposing positions? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have actively listened to understand the concerns and motivations of opposing parties. I have avoided engagement with individuals who express strong disagreement. I have facilitated discussions that encourage respectful expression of differing viewpoints. I have responded to hostility with defensive or confrontational language. I have used representational skills to clarify points of misunderstanding and build mutual understanding. I have encouraged collaborative problem‑solving even when tensions are high. I do not have any of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.