Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes how you acquired knowledge of project / program management? Answer to this question is required Formal training and direct work experience Formal degree Course certificate Apprenticeship training Directly related work experience Personal study None of the above. 4 Please select the response that best describes your experience applying Federal statutes and authorities to security related matters. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training applying Federal statutes and/or authorities. I have completed formal education or training pertaining to the application of Federal statutes and authorities that are related to the security field,but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have applied Federal statutes and/or authorities to security and related issues under close supervision. I have applied Federal statutes and/or authorities to security and related issues as a regular part of a job, independently without supervision. I have routinely applied Federal statutes and authorities to security and related issues as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in applying Federal statutes and authorities to security and related issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues. Answer to this question is required Risk Management Personnel Security Compartmentalization Defense in depth Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance Counter-Terrorism Counter-intelligence Information Assurance International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) Construction Security Technical Security Physical Security Force Protection Countermeasures Information Technologies None of the above 6 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues: Answer to this question is required Risk Management / Analysis Personnel Security Counter-intelligence Information Assurance Construction Security Technical Security Technical Surveillance Counter Measure (TSCM) Electronic Security Physical Security Force Protection None of the above 7 Please select the response that BEST describes your ability to coordinate and participate in multi-disciplinary constructability reviews of project plans and specifications at various stages of project development: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 8 Which of the following most accurately and completely describes your knowledge and experience in conducting inspections involving special security needs? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge, training or experience conducting inspections involving special security needs. I have knowledge and/or awareness of, but no experience in conducting inspections involving special security needs. I have conducted inspections involving special security needs. I have coordinated recommendations with other agencies involving special security needs. I have proposed innovative solutions to mitigate life safety deficiencies involving special security needs. I have developed and implemented new policies and procedures to mitigate life safety deficiencies involving special security needs. 9 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 10 Which of the choices following best represents your experience with budget-related work? Answer to this question is required I have defended annual budget projections for a department / area I have advocated for department funding I have created area-wide or bureau-wide budgets I have created budgets for departments or divisions I have managed project/operation budgets None of the above 11 Which of the following budget execution activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Prepare recurring reports to ensure execution of budget is in accordance with regulations. Provide technical guidance to program managers to ensure budget inputs are in compliance with regulations. Evaluate the effect of changes in program plans on the accomplishment of organization's budget and program milestones. Conduct mid-year budget reviews to advise program managers of potential issues with planned projects. Translate program goals and objectives in terms of dollar costs in budget forecasts. Review budget estimates and reports to develop budgetary forecasts for long-range resource analysis. Coordinate with other Federal agencies on activities requiring access to financial requirements on the program and budget data. Advise managers on the effects budgetary changes may have on program operations. Monitor funds availability in order to make recommendations to program managers for funding approval of current projects. Monitor accounting reports to ensure availability of funds for execution of program budget. Identify the need for reprogramming between budget accounts and/or organizations. De-obligate monies. None of the above. 12 Select the statement that best describes your experience related to working with diverse groups to coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. Answer to this question is required As part of my regular duties, I lead activities involving diverse groups and coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. As part of my regular duties, I participate in activities involving diverse groups and coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. I occasionally participated in activities involving diverse groups and coordinating technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations; however, this is not a part of my regular duties. I have training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I do not have experience related to working with diverse groups to coordinate technical activities and produce documentation such as standard operating procedures, technical reports, and presentations. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.