Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you trained or developed subordinates? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience cleaning and maintaining carpet and floors, such as tile and marble? Answer to this question is required I have completed training related to this task but have not yet applied it on the job. I have cleaned and maintained carpet with close supervision or assistance from senior workers. I have independently cleaned and maintained carpet and floors. I have led or instructed others to clean and maintain carpet and floors using proper procedures. None of the above. 4 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set work schedules. Lead daily meetings. Monitored employee performance for unsafe work practices. Inspected work site for job hazards. Provided feedback to employees on tasks completed. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 5 What type of equipment do you have experience operating and maintaining? Answer to this question is required Riding floor buffer Walk behind floor buffer Grinding machine Honing machine Power washer Ride-on sweeper Fork lift Pallet jacks Trash compactor None of the above 6 Which tasks have you performed to maintain tools and equipment in good working order? Answer to this question is required Cleaned hand/power tools after a job. Oiled the equipment for proper use. Assisted higher-graded technicians in performing advanced floor/care restoration techniques. Adjusted the equipment and attachments for proper use of the machines. Performed basic operation and control of equipment used in techniques of advanced floor care, such as grinding, honing and polishing. None of the above. 7 Which response best describes your highest level of experience operating, maintaining and repairing floor cleaning equipment? Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I have independently operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment. I have operated, maintained, or repaired floor cleaning equipment with minimal supervision. I have assisted others in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have completed training or education in operating, maintaining, or repairing floor cleaning equipment. I have not operated, maintained or repaired floor cleaning equipment. 8 Which of the following types of floor surfaces do you have experience cleaning as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Marble Carpet Terrazzo Granite Tile Wood Concrete None of the above 9 Select the activities you have performed to prepare surfaces for cleaning. Answer to this question is required Moved furniture or equipment Pre-vacuumed Swept lose dirt with a broom Gathered needed equipment and supplies Posted caution signs (e.g., wet floor) Notified supervisor of expected timeframe for task completion None of the above 10 Do you know how to operate hand and power tools? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Do you have experience applying safety rules that affect the public? Answer to this question is required Yes 11.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 12 Do you have experience handling cleaning chemicals safely? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Do you have experience in snow removal by plowing and shoveling hard surfaces (sidewalks, walkways, parking lots, and roads) in challenging/inclement weather conditions for Commercial and Industrial Buildings. And applying ice melt. Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.