Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience serving in a liaison capacity? Answer to this question is required I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work OR to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. I have served as the initial point-of-contact and have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and staff at all levels. I have served as a liaison between other government agencies, state and local officials, foreign officials and/or individuals from the private sector. As an initial point-of-contact for internal and external customers, I have functioned in a liaison capacity for an organization. None of the above. 4 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 5 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education, training, or experience with U.S. immigration laws? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in with U.S. immigration laws. I have formal training or education in or with U.S. immigration laws. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 6 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of the roles that visa and immigration play in foreign affairs and international relations. I follow visa and immigration issues in magazines and newspapers. I have studied or researched visa and immigration law or policy in a formal setting. I have applied my knowledge of visa and immigration matters in a foreign policy or international context to effect the policy change or resolve problems. I have given formal classroom or conference presentations on visa issues or have been published on these subjects. 7 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 8 Which of the following BEST reflects your ability to represent your agency in interagency policy coordination? Answer to this question is required I have no education training or experience in this area. I have participated as a member of an agency working group representing my agency by performing staff work or preparing analyses to support positions taken by my agency in interagency intelligence policy coordination. I have work experience representing my bureau in interagency working groups or sub-committees preparing intelligence policy options or recommendations. I have represented my agency as an alternate or an observing member of a national level interagency intelligence policy committee. I have experience in representing my agency as the principal member of one or more national level interagency policy committees. 9 Which of the following best reflects your experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues. I have education or training researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have experience researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently researched and resolved complex visa and immigration issues as a regular part of the job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in researching and resolving complex visa and immigration issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 Indicate the types of complex visa or immigration issues have you handled, researched, or resolved: Answer to this question is required Non-immigrant visas for business and employment purposes. Non-immigrant visas for tourism and transit. Student and exchange visitor visas. Employment-based immigrant visas. Family-based immigrant visas. Immigration petitions and applications. Employment authorization documents. Labor certifications. Refugee / Asylum processing. Fiance` visas. Exclusions or deportations. None of the above. 11 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. To provide information to Congressional staff, other governement agencies, and general public that related to interpreting and applying visa laws and regulations. None of the above 12 Which of the following best describes your background in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources. I have education or training in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely and independently analyzed and evaluated information derived from a variety of sources as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at independently analyzing and evaluating information derived from a variety of sources having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have routinely analyzed and evaluated information derived from a variety of sources as a regular part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. 13 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 14 Which of the following BEST describes your experience determining the legal, regulatory and policy issues involved in cases and the subsequent analysis, research and additional investigative fact-finding required to bring a case to closure? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in coordinating interagency policy or policy documents. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents, having trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 17 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience in interpreting and applying laws, regulations, and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. I have formal training or education in interpreting laws, regulations, and procedures. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I have experience applying these skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently interpret laws, regulations, and procedures. I routinely apply these highly developed skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. 18 Select the response that BEST describes your experience communicating policies and/or procedures via a formal written document: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have worked in partnership with subject matter experts and together we have performed this task. I have performed this task under the general supervision of a subject matter expert or supervisor. I have provided supervision and training to others so they can perform this task. 19 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 20 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 21 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings None of the above 22 I am proficient in my ability to use the following computer-based software program or operations: Answer to this question is required Word processing programs Spreadsheets Presentation / graphics Database management Internet browsers E-mail programs Statistical / quantitative analysis tools Web-based programs Program management tools None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.