Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience in developing, applying, and implementing collections management policies, standards, and best practices for a diverse range of collections? (Check those that apply) Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as a subject matter expert in current professional collections management principles, policies, standards, and best practices for a wide range of collections. I have broad knowledge, based on experience and/or college-level coursework, in the management of a variety of diverse collection materials, which may include works of art, historical artifacts, natural and physical science specimens, living animals and plants, archives, and/or libraries. I have developed, implemented, and/or contributed to the development and implementation of collections management policies, standards, and best practices as part of my job. I have expert knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices (including collections acquisition, documentation, preservation, storage, inventory, and loans) through on-the-job training and/or college-level coursework. None of the above. 3 For which of the following collection types do you have knowledge and experience in developing, editing, reviewing, applying, and implementing collections management policies, standards, and procedures? (Check those that apply) Answer to this question is required Scientific collections Historical collections Art collections Archival collections Library collections Library collections For other physical objects (non-collections) None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience in developing and managing information sharing systemes? Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience developing and managing various programmatic or project-based information sharing systems, including SharePoint, Dropbox, and public websites, to allow information exchange among cross-disciplinary groups. I have direct experience managing various information sharing systems, such as SharePoint, Dropbox, and public websites, to allow for simplified information exchange. I have used and contributed to various information sharing systems. I have training in various information sharing systems, such as SharePoint, Dropbox, and public websites. None of the above 5 Which of the following best describes your written communication skills in presenting collections-related programmatic goals, reports, evaluations, policy guidance, and information in a diverse organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have substantial experience in preparing collections-related written reports and documentation for a diverse audience, including higher management. I have experience writing complex collections-related reports, office-wide memoranda, policy guidance, operating procedures, and recommendations to staff and my supervisor. I have routinely written collections-related reports and memoranda on behalf of a committee or group of individuals which may involve explanation of policies, procedures, and/or recommendations. I have experience writing drafts of collections-related reports, memoranda, policy, procedures, and/or recommendations for my supervisor. I have made recommendations to my supervisor or higher management regarding changes in draft reports written by others. None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in providing administrative and programmatic support? Answer to this question is required I have prepared meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation under close supervision. I have assisted others in preparing meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation. I have participated on a team that prepared meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation. I have independently prepared and disseminated meeting agendas, schedules, logistics, meeting minutes, progress reports and associated documentation. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in communicating orally (Check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required I have communicated orally with cultural heritage professionals in-person. I have communicated orally with cultural heritage professionals via phone or video calls with a small number of participants. I have communicated orally with cultural heritage professionals via phone or video calls with a large number of participants. I have communicated orally in a professional environment. None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.