Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one answer that describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it pertains to the basic requirements for Education Specialist positions. Answer to this question is required I have a degree that included or was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. Combination of education and experience courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1701 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. I have completed course work equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in education or a subject matter field related to the position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 4 Which of the following statement(s) reflect your knowledge related to Native American cultures, histories, and contemporary issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have a BA, MA or PhD in Indigenous, Native American and/or American Studies. I have completed college level course(s) in Indigenous, Native American studies and/or history. I have completed college level course(s) in American studies and/or history. I have experience working in a museum or education institution with a focus on Indigenous, Native American and or American history and culture. None of the above. 5 Which of the following reflects your knowledge of Native American culture, history, and art? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have completed college level course(s) in Native American studies. I have assisted in writing educational material about Native communities or groups. I have created educational materials including papers, museum gallery guides, etc. about specific Native communities or groups. I have experience participating in indigenous cultural activities such as languages, ceremonies, heritage/cultural preservation, arts, cooking, dance, and storytelling. I have had experience working on issues and topics of concern to Native communities and indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere under supervision. I have participated on a team responsible for working on historical and contemporary issues and topics of concern to Native communities and indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere. I have led a team responsible for working on historical and contemporary issues and topics of concern to Native communities and indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere. I have advised others on historical and contemporary issues and topics of concern to Native communities and indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere. I do not have experience working in any of the above settings. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your skill in working with a team to develop and deliver educational programs? Answer to this question is required I have led a team in making decisions about program or curriculum direction and facilitated the team’s work in developing and delivering a range of educational experiences related to Native American history and culture. I have led a team responsible for developing and delivering educational experiences related to Native American history and culture. I have led a team responsible for developing and delivering educational experiences in any related field, specialty or cultural activity. I have participated as part of a team developing and delivering educational programs. I have no experience working with a team to develop and deliver educational programs. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience or training designing comprehensive lesson plans, learning activities, or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards? Answer to this question is required I have not had course work, internships, training or work experience designing comprehensive lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards. I have completed course work, internships or other training designing lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as part of my job, usually with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as a central part of my work, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed lesson plans, educational activities or other materials that incorporate a museum's collection and address K-12 curriculum requirements and learning standards as a central part of my work, trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert. 8 Which of the following digital technologies have you used to develop and coordinate the implementation of distance learning and technology-based educational programs for K-12 students? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Two-way teleconferencing. Webcasts and/or webinars. Interactive web curriculum. Social media. Downloadable curriculum materials. None of the above. 9 Which of the following oral presentations have you prepared in support of public or educational programming? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Making public announcements to introduce a presentation by a lecturer, demonstrator, or performer. Moderating a lecture, symposium, or seminar with multiple presenters. Making oral presentations to large audiences (>100 people). Making oral presentations ( Making oral presentations to support public programming to senior staff or potential funding organizations. Speaking to a small group about educational programs. None of the above. 10 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience participating in professional discussions? Answer to this question is required I have experience actively participating in professional discussions by regularly giving scholarly and public talks, consulting, teaching, organizing, and participating in workshops and symposia; presenting at major professional conferences and events; and serving as editor for a professional journal, or engaging in professional training opportunities. I have experience participating in professional discussions by giving scholarly and public talks, consulting, teaching, participating in workshops and symposia. I have orally presented research to scholarly and public audiences. I do not have experience with public speaking/oral presentations. 11 Which of the following describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of education staff? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising staff in an education department, creating work plans and schedules. I have experience assigning and evaluating the work of subordinates including the development of performance standards and plans. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience interviewing candidates for departmental vacancies. I have experience providing counseling to employees including hearing and resolving complaints and effecting minor disciplinary measures such as warnings and counseling memoranda. 12 Which statement best describes your experience supervising staff or team projects? Answer to this question is required I supervised staff by setting goals and priorities, assigning work, evaluating performance, and holding employees accountable for results. I led staff or teams by assigning work and monitoring progress but did not have full supervisory authority. I served as a team lead or project lead without responsibility for performance evaluation. I have not supervised staff. 13 Which of the following reflect your experience managing workforce and resources or team projects? ( Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed workload priorities. I have managed training or spending plans to support organizational goals. I have adjusted work assignments or schedules to meet changing priorities. I have managed resources under established direction. I have no experience in this area. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.