Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Examples of specialized experience for this position include:&nbsp; (1) Providing operational leadership and oversight, program and management guidance, advisory and consultative services and policy development in primary human capital functional areas, including talent acquisition; employee relations, including performance management; pay administration; and benefits. (2) Supervising both managerial and staff employees performing HR work and providing administrative and technical supervision and guidance as necessary for accomplishing the work. (3) Developing human capital strategies, plans and policies that support organizational performance and goal achievement as well as foster an innovative and empowered workforce. &nbsp; (4) Providing management staff with technical human capital advice and assistance and recommending appropriate courses of action to follow involving workplace and employee concerns. (5) Developing and overseeing continuous improvement efforts to enhance and yield greater efficiencies in human resources processes, systems and/or practices. &nbsp; No 2 Do you have experience writing policies and standard operating procedures (SOPs)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have prepared the following types of written materials. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Agency policies and instructions Award Citations Training Presentations Instruction and guidance to managers Memos to managers on program requirements None of the above. 4 Do you have experience supervising or managing a workforce that provided improved services to customers considering organizational goals, budget constraints, and staffing needs and responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Select the response(s) that describe your experience identifying and analyzing HR problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. Answer to this question is required &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;Answer to this question is required&lt;/p&gt; &lt;p class='MsoNormal'&gt;&nbsp;&lt;/p&gt; Developed comprehensive material for reports, training, briefings or meetings of senior management officials. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings and recommendations to management officials within the organization. Identified and analyzed problems; distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions. Interpreted and applied statutes and regulations. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. Provided automated solutions to organizational problems. Provided input for HR policies, regulations, procedures and plans for implementation by senior officials in meeting the organization's goals and objectives. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving. None of the above. 6 Select the statements that describe how you inspired and fostered team commitment, spirit, pride, and trust. Answer to this question is required Led staff to address controversial agency-wide legislative and regulatory policy issues. Promoted cohesiveness of staff members by defining roles and responsibilities of each team member and establishing overall objectives. Motivated staff by assigning work based on their skill levels and areas of interest. Included the staff in the decision-making process when developing mission and goals for the division. None of the Above 7 Select the proficiency levels that describe your ability to bring about strategic change to meet organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Designed approaches and procedures to develop a strategic plan supporting key agency goals and objectives. Established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. Conducted a review of the agency's core mission and gathered information from relevant sources to support development of a strategic plan. Implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of work unit goals. None of the Above 8 Select the statements that describe how you attained your ability to design and implement new programs and processes. Answer to this question is required Devised new methods, procedures, and approaches that had agency-wide impact. Developed a new performance management system that aligned with the agency vision. Created new methods for planning, designing, and carrying out program objectives. Organized and lead cross-divisional work groups to develop creative solutions to address problems. Displayed creativity by deviating from traditional methods in developing new procedures. None of the Above 9 Select levels of proficiencies accomplished in networking and building alliances to develop strategic relationships and achieve common goals. Answer to this question is required &lt;p class='MsoNormal' style='margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: normal; background: white;'&gt;&lt;span style='font-size: 10.0pt; font-family: Roboto; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #212121; border: none windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: none windowtext 0in; padding: 0in; mso-font-kerning: 0pt; mso-ligatures: none;'&gt;Answer to this question is required.&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/p&gt; Developed, publicized and obtained support for programs and policies by meeting with key officials, executives, unions, employees and other interested parties. Partnered with key officials from various offices and agencies to develop strategic goals. Shared information and resources across multiple levels to establish new programs. Gained support from key leaders and staff to ensure support for work objectives and team initiatives. Coordinated with partners regarding new strategies to ensure consistent communication with other agencies. None of the Above 10 Choose the illustrations that describe how you identify and analyze problems, generate alternative solutions, and recommend corrective actions. Answer to this question is required Improved organizational efficiency by developing, planning, and implementing a multi-tier solution to complex or unprecedented problems. Combined information from internal and external sources to develop an action plan addressing program issues. Addressed systemic barriers inhibiting the achievement of results by forming teams to conduct focus groups and develop solutions. Applied appropriate methodology to discover or identify policy issues and resource concerns. Reconciled conflicting and incomplete information to develop solutions. None of the Above 11 Which of the following negotiation techniques have you applied when settling differences in the workplace. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Preparation - Ensures that all the pertinent facts of the situation are known in order to avoid further conflict and efficient use of time during the meeting. Discussion – Listens, asks questions and gets clarification of the situation from individual on each side. Clarification of goals – Identifies a common ground by clarifying the goals, interests and viewpoints of both sides. Negotiation of a “Win-Win” outcome – Makes both sides feel they have gained something positive and that their point of view have been taken into consideration. Agreement – Ensures that the agreement reached is perfectly clear so that both sides know what was decided. Implementation – Determines the course of action to be implemented to carry out the decision. None of the above. 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.