Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in Federal service. I do not meet the requirement as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience in sorting and filing mail in preparation for dissemination to other persons or locations within an organization? Answer to this question is required I possess multiple years of experience, and I am considered an expert in performing this task. I am normally the person who is consulted by leadership for recommendations, or to assist or train others to perform this task. I have two or more years or more experience in sorting and filing mail in a mailing operation as well as preparing delivery routes. I have one year or more experience in sorting and filing mail in a non-mailing operation, but I do not have experience with the preparation of delivery routes. I have less than one year experience in sorting mail in an office environment. I have nave no experience sorting or filing mail in an office environment. 3 Which of the following types of records have you demonstrated the ability to maintain? Answer to this question is required Schedules Daily sign in sheets Daily count sheets Vehicle inspection reports Employee timecards None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience providing customer service? Answer to this question is required I have provided customer service to visitors or other persons as a regular part of my job. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I am able to answer general questions. I am able to give simple informative directions. I do not have experience providing customer service. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in answering inquiries regarding organizational mailing practices and/or politices. Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I am normally the person who responds to inquires or is consulted by other co-workers for guidance. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on my job with minimum oversight by senior staff members. I have performed this task on my job. My work on this task was reviewed closely by senior staff members to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in adding postage to mail utilizing postage machines? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have trained others in completing this task and have regularly assisted others to troubleshoot issues that arise. I have performed this task as a regular aspect of my job independently and normally without review of senior staff members. I have performed this task on my job. My work on this task has had minimal review by senior staff members. I have performed this task on the job while reviewed closely by supervisors or senior staff members to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have been trained or educated on the performance of this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have no training, education, or experience in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in responding to customer questions on postal services and regulations? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I am normally the person who responds to inquires or is consulted by other co-workers for guidance. I have performed this task as a regular aspect of my job independently and normally without review of senior staff members. I have performed this task on my job. My work on this task has had minimal review by senior staff members. I have performed this task on the job while closely reviewed by senior staff members to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have been trained or educated on the performance of this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have no training, education, or experience in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally in a professional environment? Answer to this question is required I have extensive work experience and demonstrated expertise in applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and non-routine manner. I have extensive work experience in applying advanced communication skills in the workplace to include giving oral briefings to staff members and management on a consistent basis. I have work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and non-routine matters. I have work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have minimal work experience in applying basic communication skills to communicate with co-workers, superiors, and customers. I have no experience utilizing oral communication in a professional environment. 9 Please select the software applications in which you are proficient (Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system&rsquo;s functionality capabilities). Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Microsoft Outlook Operating Systems (e.g., Windows, Mac, OS) Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Graphics or presentation software such as MS PowerPoint, MS Publisher, and Adobe Acrobat). None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your ability to communicate orally to varying technical and business backgrounds in order to convey information clearly and concisely to effectively negotiate agreement, settlement or consensus, and defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans. Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have been a lead or trained others in completing this task and have been regularly consulted by other workers to assist them due to my expertise. I have extensive experience in the use of oral communication of various tasks to negotiate agreements, settlement or consensus, or to defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans. I have experience in routinely assisting other members of my team in negotiating agreements, settlement or consensus, or to defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans through the use of verbal communication in a lead, supervisory, or senior staff position. I have experience in routinely assisting other members of my team in negotiating agreements, settlement or consensus, or to defend complex concepts, objectives, and plans through the use of verbal communication. I have been trained or educated on the performance of this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have no training or education in the performance of this task. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to effectively discuss issues, problems, concerns, and contractual agreements with external customers and partners? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in discussing routine and non-routine issues with external partners and customers of organizations. My guidance has been routinely requested in these matters. I have extensive experience in discussing routine and non-routine matters with external partners and customers of organizations. These taks involved minimal review by senior staff. I have communicated with external partners and customers on routine and non-routine matters with close review by senior staff. I have communicated with external partners and customers on routine matters with close review by senior staff. I have received training in this task but have never used it in a professional environment. I have no experience or training in this area. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you included a copy of your Drivers&rsquo; License (Front &amp; Back) and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.