Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have performed the following responsibilities, which are related to effective leadership : Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 4 From the following list, select all of the supervisory or leadership duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters. I have interviewed candidates for positions. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 5 From the following choices, identify the types of oral communications in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Briefing papers Briefing superiors / supervisors Briefing decision-makers Communicating with hostile persons or groups Persuading or recommending action Instructing, teaching Participating in team exercises Briefing large groups (more than 30 participants) Explaining abstract concepts Providing guidance to subordinates Briefing small groups (less than 15 participants) None of the above 6 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Internal memorandum Publications Books Academic papers Journal articles Thesis Dissertation Assessments Newspaper articles Monitoring reports None of the above 7 I have experience editing documents written by others and can apply the following skills: Answer to this question is required Reading and understanding document standards and identifying areas where the document does not meet those standards. Reorganizing the content of a document for greater clarity. Checking for required reading level and offering suggestions to the writer. Identifying errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation, and numbering. Identifying errors in numbering, margins, indentation and style. Negotiating content changes with the writer. None of the above. 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of training and/or experience in managing projects/ programs? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet managed projects / programs in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in managing projects / programs. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no experience, formal training, or education managing projects/ programs. 9 From the following list, please indicate the area(s) relative to all-source intelligence analysis in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Implementation of improvements to analytical tradecraft. Production of analytical assessments. Distribution of analytical products. Compliance with standards established for analytical production within the Intelligence Community (IC) and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Management of databases used for analytical products within the Intelligence Community (IC). Implementation of Intelligence Community (IC) Directives regarding analytical products. None of the above. 10 From the following list, please indicate the activities to which you have applied all-source intelligence analysis. Answer to this question is required Implementing Intelligence Community (IC) Directives (ICDs) regarding analytical products Exchanging analytic information, ideas, and opinions through classification-appropriate social media tools (e.g., Diplopedia, Intellipedia, Corridor, A-Space, Twitter) Service as primary drafter / creator on all-source intelligence assessments and other analytic products Collaborating with colleagues in the State Department on analytic products Collaborating with colleagues in the State Department on briefings Collaborating with colleagues from IC agencies on analytic products Collaborating with colleagues from IC agencies on analytic briefings Publishing of your analytic product(s) by an agency in the US Intelligence Community (IC), such as the Director of National Intelligence's National Intelligence Council (NIC) or the President's daily Briefing Book (PDB) None of the above 11 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 12 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded a senior official to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization's mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. I have persuaded journalists to cover certain issues / topics / events or persuaded journalists to more positive news coverage of issues / topics / events. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.