Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 06 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to planting, growing, and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience related to planting and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials. I completed training or education related to planting and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted senior individuals with planting and tending lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials. I have planted, grown, and tended lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently planted, grown, and tended lawns, trees, flowers, and other plant materials. 2 Select the responses that demonstrate your ability to perform repetitive, routine tasks independently. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Uses equipment, resources and work time in an efficient and effective manner. Approaches challenging tasks with a “can-do” attitude. Prioritizes tasks by importance and deadline. Discerns what is crucial from what is just urgent. Adjusts priorities as situations change. Focuses time and effort on key tasks. Groups related tasks to be more efficient. Easily transitions between tasks and picks up where left off when interrupted. Meets and exceeds deadlines. None of the above. 3 Select the responses that demonstrate your communication skills. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Reads and follows specific job-related information; i.e., work orders, written instructions, material / equipment labels, etc. Reads and follows general information related to work assignments; i.e., articles in trade publications, technical / instructional manuals, memos, letters, e-mails, reports. Writes legibly and speaks clearly to ensure messages are understood. Listens carefully to understand; asks questions to clarify. None of the above. 4 Which statement best describes your level of knowledge with plant propagation? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge, training, or education with plant propagation. I have knowledge, training or education in plant propagation but have not put it into practice at work. I have knowledge, training and work experience with plant propagation. I have knowledge, training or education with plant propagation and have extensive work experience propagating plants at work. 5 Select the elements you have working knowledge of planting following propagation best practices. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Bulbs Live plants (e.g., annuals) Seeds Container trees Shrubbery None of the above 6 Which techniques have you performed to propagate plants? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Rooting Layering Grafting Division Seed propagation Striking or cuttings Micro-propagation None of the above 7 Select the objectives you have achieved from applying pruning techniques to plants. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required To encourage growth (e.g., fruit/flower production, stimulate healing) To remove disease To improve structure To remove safety hazards To improve or maintain aesthetics None of the above 8 Which of the following methods have you followed to complete gardening tasks? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Adhered to project plans Adhered to long-range propagation plans Adhered to planting plans Followed instructions or Standard Operating Procedures None of the above 9 Select the instructions you have read and interpreted to complete gardening assignments. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Equipment operation manuals Pesticide labels Fertilizer mixing instructions Manufacture instructions (for chemicals, etc.) None of the above 10 Select the small power tools you have used to perform gardening work (i.e., to trim plant material, etc.). (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Leaf blower/Vac Reciprocating saw Chain saw None of the above 11 I have experience locating specific plant information (e.g., plant types, culture diseases and geographical information) in reference books and web sites when I need more information to perform a gardening task. Answer to this question is required True False 12 Do you have a valid, unexpired pesticide license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating plant health? Answer to this question is required I recognized signs that indicated a plant was under stress or in poor health and notified my superior for problem identification and resolution. I have identified specific problems related to plant health and sought guidance on resolving the problem. I independently corrected problem conditions causing poor plant health. I provided guidance and advice to others in the identification and resolution of plant health issues. None of the above. 14 Which of the following collection management tasks do you have knowledge of? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Adhering to a collections management plan/policy for accessioned living plants Requesting accessioning into a living plant collection Completing plant inventories Tracking/documenting plant development and change of status Growing a targeted/curated collection of plants None of the above 15 Do you have knowledge of growing media and the use of temperature, light level, humidity, watering, fertilization, and air movement to mimic conditions of the plant's natural environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 What sanitation actions have you taken to prevent the spread of plant diseases and pests? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Sterilized tools and working areas Sterilized pots and containers Quarantined affected materials (e.g., soil, plants) Ensured sterilization procedures were followed by others Assisted with development of sanitation plans and/or procedures None of the above 17 What gardening tasks have you performed? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Weeding Watering Transplanting trees and shrubs Aerating Pruning Soil Preparation Flower bed renovation Integrated pest management None of the above 18 This is a permanent, part-time position, and pay is based on an hourly rate. Do you understand and acknowledge the part-time nature of this position and that full-time hours are not guaranteed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.