Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Grade 13: Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have had education or training in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in evaluating budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels. I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience managing, tracking and overseeing multiple budgets using an automated financial system (such as or similar to Questica, Farsight, PeopleSoft, etc.)? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing, tracking and overseeing multiple budgets using an automated financial system (such as or similar to Questica, Farsight, PeopleSoft, etc.). I have experience managing and tracking multiple budgets using an automated financial system (such as or similar to Questica, Farsight, PeopleSoft, etc.). I have experience managing multiple budgets using an automated financial system (such as or similar to Questica, Farsight, PeopleSoft, etc.). I have experience assisting with managing multiple budgets using an automated financial system (such as or similar to Questica, Farsight, PeopleSoft, etc.). I do not have related experience. 4 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of experience in designing, implementing, and making adjustments to personnel cost projection reports including interpreting and providing analysis of their results and reconciliation of their data? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience providing personnel salary cost projections and analysis (including accruals). I have experience providing personnel salary cost projections and analysis (not including accruals). I have experience designing personnel cost projection reports including populating employee information for initial set-up and annual year reporting I have experience making adjustments to reports to provide additional information and analysis. I have experience reconciling spreadsheet projections to actual payroll including creating payroll change reports. I have experience calculating employee benefits related to personnel cost projections. I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, concepts, and practices sufficient to develop improvement recommendations for use across organizational lines? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in applying accounting principles, theories, procedures, etc. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have developed analyses and reconciliations related to accounting functions which involve more than one system and involve a large number of transactions cross-leveling interrelated accounting systems. I have proposed procedures and methods to resolve current problems and enhance the validity, accuracy, and integrity of financial and accounting data. I have conducted quantitative analysis of statistical data from accounting reports and financial statements to identify financial management problems. 6 Which statements reflect your experience performing administrative tasks in support of the budget process (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of budget principles, practices, and processes through on-the-job and/or classroom training. I obtain, compile, and summarize narrative information and quantitative budget data. I verify the costs of line items in the budget and enter the costs in standard forms and schedules. I extract budget and program data from computer printouts of accounting records, forms, and reports for use by co-workers. I track the results of budget deliberations in OMB and in Congress. I understand and apply congressional reprogramming requirements. I have worked with the Federal budget request process and time lines. I have worked with the Trust budget request process and time lines. I assist in writing appeals or inputs to appeals of OMB or Congressional reductions. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to discern trends in spending and differences in costs. I compare and contrast current and historical budget and workload data for similar programs and activities to anticipate needs for funds or reprogramming actions. I review, verify and analyze submitted data for consistency with financial and program objectives and adherence to instructions. I help prepare schedules, graphs, and tables included in budget submissions. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 7 Which of the following reflects your experience performing financial management/budgetary activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared fiscal year budget packages for circulation and approval. I have provided monthly financial reports to reflect current status of funds authorized, obligated, expended and balance remaining. I have assessed the impact of changes in programs and regulations on salaries, travel, benefits, overtime, and related expenses to the agency's budget. I have estimated funding needs. I verify that obligations and expenditures are within amounts available. I have accessed an automated financial system to review financial activity on unit operating accounts. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 8 Please select any duties you have held relating to personnel supervision. Answer to this question is required Recruiting new employees Interviewing and/or selecting new employees Training employees Supervising and/or managing employees Evaluating the performance of employees Making promotion decisions about employees I have not had any personnel supervision experience 9 Which of the following best describes your experience performing the full range of supervisory and managerial functions relative to a team of support staff? Answer to this question is required I have experience directly supervising staff, creating work plans, conducting performance reviews, and overseeing personnel actions. I have experience assisting with staff supervision, creation of work plans and performance information. I have experience creating work plans and schedules. I have experience identifying development and training needs of employees. I have experience with scheduling employees. None of the above. 10 Indicate the highest level of experience you have leading or supervising teams. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams to accomplish a common goal. I have experience working as a member of a team. I have coordinated the work of others, but have not been assigned formal leadership responsibilities. I have supervised the work of people assigned to me to complete a specific project or task. I have experience leading teams that require solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have held a team leader position over a group of employees or acted in the absence of the supervisor. I have held a full-time supervisory position with responsibility for the guidance and development of others. 11 Which of the following describes your experience serving as the approving official for procurement, travel, purchase cards, and other administrative and management functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance and instructions on the proper steps to be followed when procuring goods and services and reviewing purchase orders and contracts to ensure that they comply with federal regulations. I have authorized the expenditure of funds via government purchase cards and ensured that such expenditures meet federal guidelines. I have reviewed travel requests to ensure that they are in accordance with federal travel regulations. I have provided guidance and assistance to travelers and administrative staff in preparing travel authorizations, field advances, and submitting travel vouchers. I have ensured that funds are available, travel is mission essential, and supervisory approvals have been given before approving travel authorizations. I have not done any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience, education, or training communicating in writing to provide advice and guidance to high-level managers on budget, funding and accounts management? Answer to this question is required I have trained others to perform this task and provided advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. I have experience communicating in writing to provide advice and guidance to high-level managers on budget, fund, and accounts management as a regular part of my job (without supervision). I have experience communicating in writing to provide advice and guidance to high-level managers on budget, fund, and accounts management as a regular part of my job (under close supervision). I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. 13 Which of the following describes your experience serving as the primary procurement officer for procurement? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience serving in the capacity as an organization/museum’s Primary Procurement Officer at the $50K level or more. I have experience coordinating with central contracting office to ensure new procedures rules are enforced. I have experience reviewing all approval requests before submissions to central contracting office. I have experience providing procurement briefings to a finance and administrative support team. I have experience directing administrative staff to attend procurement training and refresher classes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.