Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Professional law experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. GS-14 Applicants must have a minimum of three years of professional law experience after being admitted to the bar, one year of which is required to demonstrate the following specialized experience requirements. Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: 1. Experience serving as a subject matter legal authority on statutory and regulatory requirements governing reasonable accommodation of employees and applicants with disabilities under federal civil rights laws. 2. Experience conducting complex legal analysis of the Rehabilitation Act (Sections 501, 504, 505), ADAAA, EEOC Enforcement Guidance, 29 C.F.R. Part 1630, OPM disability employment regulations, Section 508, federal privacy statutes, and relevant federal case law to advise on legal sufficiency and compliance related to reasonable accommodations programs. 3. Experience drafting legally defensible decisions, determinations, and written analyses regarding reasonable accommodation requests, undue hardship assertions, essential job function disputes, and disability eligibility questions. 4. Experience participating in the resolution of disputed Reasonable Accommodation cases. 5. Experience representing an organization's legal interests in meetings, working groups, and policy development sessions on disability employment law and reasonable accommodation standards. 6. Experience providing guidance to internal stakeholders regarding reasonable accommodations matters. 1 I have a minimum of three years of professional law experience after being admitted to the bar, one year of which demonstrates the specialized experience requirements listed above and which is equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 15 Professional law experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. GS-15 Applicants must have a minimum of four years of professional law experience after being admitted to the bar, one year of which is required to demonstrate the following specialized experience requirements. Applicants must have a minimum of one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience includes the following: 1. Experience serving as a subject matter legal authority on statutory and regulatory requirements governing reasonable accommodation of employees and applicants with disabilities under federal civil rights laws. 2. Experience conducting complex legal analysis of the Rehabilitation Act (Sections 501, 504, 505), ADAAA, EEOC Enforcement Guidance, 29 C.F.R. Part 1630, OPM disability employment regulations, Section 508, federal privacy statutes, and relevant federal case law to advise on legal sufficiency and compliance related to reasonable accommodations programs. 3. Experience drafting legally defensible decisions, determinations, and written analyses regarding reasonable accommodation requests, undue hardship assertions, essential job function disputes, and disability eligibility questions. 4. Experience participating in the resolution of disputed Reasonable Accommodation cases. 5. Experience representing an organization's legal interests in meetings, working groups, and policy development sessions on disability employment law and reasonable accommodation standards. 6. Experience advising senior leadership regarding Reasonable Accommodation legal standards, risk exposure, legal sufficiency of decisions, and implications for workplace accommodation and equal employment opportunity. 1 I have a minimum of four years of professional law experience after being admitted to the bar, one year of which demonstrates the specialized experience requirements listed above and which is equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Attorney positions. Choose the one answer that best describes your educational background required for an Attorney position: Answer to this question is required I have a JD, LL.B., and/or LL.M. I do not possess any of the degrees listed above. 7 I am a member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Are you a U.S. citizen? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8.1 If you are not a US citizen you may be eligible for consideration if you meet one of the categories listed below. If you meet one of the categories, you are still subject to the requirements of immigration laws. You must provide documentation supporting your eligibility prior to being hired. For more information about citizenship requirements for Federal employment, please visit the Office of Personnel Management's website at http://www.usajobs.gov/ResourceCenter/Index/Interactive/NonCitizensEmployment#icc. Please choose the one response that represents your status: I owe permanent allegiance to the United States (for example, natives of American Samoa and Swains Island); I am lawfully admitted for permanent residence and seeking citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); I am admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or have been granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and have filed a declaration of intention to become lawful permanent resident and then citizen when eligible. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).