Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of applicable statutes and authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or knowledge of applicable statutes or authorities related to Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted comprehensive and complex security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the handling, control, storage and safeguarding of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have conducted security reviews to ensure compliance with existing Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations concerning the construction of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF). I have processed, investigated and adjudicated security infractions and violations, including mishandling of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI). I have developed methodology and procedures for establishing, operating and assessing the effectiveness of a Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Security Program in accordance with Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) or other applicable regulations. 2 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above 3 Select the response that BEST describes your experience developing policies and procedures: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 4 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 5 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 6 I am proficient in my knowledge of the following concepts as each applies to security issues. Answer to this question is required Risk Management Personnel Suitability Compartmentalization Defense in depth Surveillance Detection Counter-Surveillance Counter-Terrorism Counter-Intelligence Information Assurance International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) Construction Security Technical Security Physical Security Force Protection Countermeasures Information Technologies None of the above 7 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with evaluating security programs for system vulnerability. Answer to this question is required I have education and training on evaluating security programs for system vulnerabilities, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have conducted oversight reviews on the effectiveness of information security programs and practices to determine system vulnerabilities. I have made recommendations to managers regarding changes in security programs, policies and/or procedures. I have implemented changes to existing security programs, policies and/or procedures to increase program efficiency and effectiveness. I have participated in oversight reviews on the effectiveness of information security programs and practices to determine system vulnerabilities. I have no education or training on evaluating security programs for system vulnerabilities. 8 Which of the following choices best reflects your knowledge of, and experience in Information Assurance standards and practices? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, Information Assurance standards and practices I have knowledge of, or education in, Information Assurance standards and practices but no experience I have knowledge of, and have worked with Information Assurance standards and practices I have been a member of a formal Information Assurance standards and practices team I have led Information Assurance teams and/or projects I am certified in Information Assurance standards and practices 9 I have performed the following responsibilities, which are related to effective leadership : Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I plan and organize my work under close supervision. I have assisted others in planning and organizing their work. I have participated on a team that planned and organized work. I have independently planned and organized work. I have led others charged with planning and organizing work. I have no experience planning and organizing work. 11 Please indicate the types of resources you have allocated across a wide range of security programs? Answer to this question is required Logistical Workforce Operational Financial None of the above 12 Which of the following have you performed as a routine part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple projects Established timelines for multiple projects Closed out projects Started up and managed projects through completion Established and monitored project progress Met deadlines Used project management software Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks and monitored performance Anticipated and resolved problems None of the above 13 Select one choice that best describes your communication skills. Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups. I have regularly conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have cooperative attitudes. I have no experience in performing this task. 14 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience developing briefings for senior management officials including analyses, conclusions, and recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 From the following list, please identify those regulations with which you have worked. Answer to this question is required Executive Order 12333 Executive Order 12829 Executive Order 12958 Executive Order 12968 Executive Order 13526 Executive Order 13587 Director of Central Intelligence Directives (DCID) Intelligence Community Directives 503 Intelligence Community Directives 704 Intelligence Community Directives 705 Intelligence Community Policy Guidance (ICPG) Intelligence Community Policy Memoranda (ICPM) Intelligence Community Standards (ICS) Interagency Security Committee (ISC) Policies, Standards, and Best Practices Telephone Security Group Standards Foreign Affairs Manuals (FAM) Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH), Overseas Security Policy Board Standards None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.