Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as project scheduler/coordinator for all temporary installation and permanent collection exhibitions? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as project scheduler/coordinator for all temporary installation and permanent collection exhibitions. I have experience serving as project scheduler/coordinator for all temporary installation exhibitions. I have experience serving as project scheduler. I have experience serving as project coordinator. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing projects? Answer to this question is required I have coordinated/managed small or medium projects involving exhibitions or other museum initiatives. I have worked on a team managing long-term projects involving exhibitions or other museum initiatives. I have training in project coordination/management. I have no experience with project coordination/management. 7 Which of the following describes your experience in developing and coordinating multiple projects within an established timeframe? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without close review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision and input from a supervisor and/or senior employee. I have education and training in project coordination in a cultural institution, but have not performed this task on the job I have not had education, training or experience in project coordination. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience working with technical independence to design and fabricate exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes using a variety of materials including wood, metal, and synthetics? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with technical independence to design and fabricate exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes using a variety of materials including wood, metal, and synthetics. I have experience working with technical independence to design and fabricate exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes using a variety of materials. I have experience working with technical independence to design and fabricate exhibit components such as panels, platforms, cases, furniture and/or interactive prototypes. I have experience working with technical independence to design and fabricate exhibit components. I have experience working with technical independence. I do not have related experience. 9 Do you have experience in a museum or similar institution performing tasks associated with the production of museum quality exhibits? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following best describes your experience developing detailed shop drawings and specifications based on consultation with designers, conservators, and curators? Answer to this question is required I have experience with detailed shop drawings and specifications based on consultation with designers, conservators, and curators. I have experience with detailed shop drawings and specifications based on consultation with designers, and conservators. I have experience with detailed shop drawings and specifications based on consultation with designers. I have experience with detailed shop drawings and specifications. I have experience with detailed shop drawings. I do not have related experience. 11 Do you have experience being responsible for the safe handling and installation of art objects for exhibition? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following best describes your experience being responsible for the training and oversight of outside art handling/installation contractors in all aspects of art handling and installation methods and techniques? Answer to this question is required I have experience being responsible for the training and oversight of outside art handling/installation contractors in all aspects of art handling and installation methods and techniques. I have experience being responsible for the training and oversight of outside art handling/installation contractors in all aspects of art handling and installation methods. I have experience being responsible for the training and oversight of outside art handling/installation contractors in all aspects of art handling. I have experience being responsible for the training and oversight of outside art handling/installation contractors. I have experience being responsible for the training of outside art handling/installation contractors. I do not have related experience. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience participating in the installation of exhibition audiovisual equipment, labels and exhibitions graphics elements, as needed? Answer to this question is required I have experience participating in the installation of exhibition audiovisual equipment, labels and exhibitions graphics elements, as needed. I have experience participating in the installation of exhibition audiovisual equipment, and labels, as needed. I have experience participating in the installation of exhibition audiovisual equipment as needed. I do not have related experience. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.