Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following BEST describes your experience using technology to manipulate and analyze data, create presentations, develop work products, or create workplace efficiencies? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience performing this task. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted other workers in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 4 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 5 Which of the following forms of communication have you used to communicate technical information? Answer to this question is required Formal presentations Informal presentations Information memoranda Policy or other briefing documents Journals News media Instructional aids None of the above 6 Select the interpersonal communication activities you have performed: Answer to this question is required Coordinated findings with other experts. Coordinated with various federal law enforcement agencies. Coordinated work with appropriate U.S. Government or foreign government officials and agencies. Established and maintained good rapport with personnel who provide direct support to a program area of responsibility. Established effective system to monitor and track all out going communication to achieve timely response. Organized or participated in various internal and external conferences and/or seminars. None of the above. 7 From the following list of data analyses software tools, please identify those that you have successfully used to interpret data: Answer to this question is required R Python Scala Julia SPSS S-PLUS Stata MS-Excel D3 (data driven-documents) MATLAB or Mathematica Data applied Tableau e-Spatial ArcGIS Google-Charts/Google Maps RapidMiner KNIME None of the above 8 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material: Answer to this question is required I have written analytical technical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical technical reports for external audiences. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefing materials for program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.