Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals. Contacts will be with UNICOR Project Managers, Product Managers, Product Development Managers, Contracting Officers, vendors, customers, industry specialists, Wardens, Associate Wardens, Superintendents of Industries, Factory Managers, plant line staff, and Central Office staff at all levels. He/she must be able to communicate to evaluate the effectiveness of product marketing, product costing, scheduling, data accuracy procedures, and overall use of the Systems, Applications &amp; Products system; gain high level management support for various projects and determine the most effective use of resources in support of factory and corporate operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a working taskforce or committee; and/or I have advised management on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have taught training courses/seminars and other training-related topics. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prison/Federal Prison Industries managers while involved in a project; and/or I have performed and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have provided guidance and advice to less experienced staff. I have exchanged information with personnel from the Department of Justice and other federal agencies; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution process as the mediator; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external contractors, private sector vendors and various company officials; and/or I have communicated findings and recommendations for discrepancies noted during a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, contractors, vendors, line staff and customers. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have prepared weekly status briefings; and/or I have revised internal policy/institution supplement/operations memorandum; and/or I have prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change independently; and/or I have written policy or business procedures related to production, finance, procurement, sales or quality control that detailed specific functions and activities within an Enterprise Resource Planning system. I have prepared instructional information for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have revised local policy; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report; and/or I have assisted with writing policy or business procedures related to production, finance, procurement, sales or quality control that detailed specific functions and activities within an Enterprise Resource Planning system. I have written memoranda for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memoranda or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared and issued descriptive performance log entries. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst is responsible for analyzing sales, procurement, and manufacturing information to identify problem areas or processes needing improvement. He/she derives solutions which best fit the corporate environment in general and Office Furniture Business Group business goals. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in analyzing manufacturing cost or lead times on one product family; and/or I have assisted in solving material cost or usage problems; and/or I have assisted in analyzing the cost of finished goods from one product line at one or more factories. I have analyzed manufacturing cost or lead times on diverse and unique product families; and/or I have advised and assisted in resolving complex and novel material cost or usage problems; and/or I have resolved costing problems arising from errors in production master data (i.e., bills of material, cost roll-ups, contract pricing, vendor or material master) that adversely impacted the standard, planned or actual cost; and/or I have analyzed the cost of finished goods across diverse product lines from multiple factories. I have analyzed manufacturing cost or lead times on one product family; and/or I have advised and assisted in solving material cost or usage problems; and/or I have analyzed the cost of finished goods from one product line at multiple factories. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be skilled in using manufacturing resource planning software to include material requirements planning, material master, sales and delivery, material management, inventory, costing, and procurement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and corrected technical material requirements planning problems by determining the root cause; and/or I have developed non-routine sales order business processes, non-routine order analysis procedures or non-routine order error identification and correction procedures; and/or I have designed procurement planning and control processes and procedures for a single product line to ensure compliance with Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have analyzed non-routine contract pricing problems and assisted in implementing solutions. I have analyzed and corrected complex material requirements planning problems by determining the root cause; and/or I have developed complex sales order business processes, order analysis procedures or order error identification and correction procedures of a highly complex nature; and/or I have designed procurement planning and control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have analyzed complex contract pricing problems and implemented solutions. I have assisted in analyzing and correcting routine material requirements planning problems; and/or I have assisted in developing routine sales order business processes, routine order analysis procedures or routine order error identification and correction procedures; and/or I have assisted in the design of routine procurement planning or control processes and procedures for a single product line to ensure compliance with Federal Acquisition Regulations; and/or I have assisted in analyzing routine contract pricing problems and assisted in implementing solutions. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must have knowledge of contract functions to perform a variety of duties, such as determining contract types and the proper clauses, interpreting contract regulations and legal requirements, analyzing industry patterns and practices, and providing guidance and training. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ensured contractors are following contract requirements; and/or I have prepared market research to determine availability of suppliers; and/or I have reviewed acquisition planning documents. I have prepared solicitations; and/or I have analyzed settlement proposals; and/or I have performed price analysis to get reasonable prices/rates; and/or I have used pre-award surveys to determine contractor's eligibility for awards; and/or I have determined type of contract and contract clauses. I have determined deficiencies in pre/post award reviews; and/or I have provided instructional guidance on complex procurement matters; and/or I have performed forecasting techniques to determine need for a requirement; and/or I have recommended changes to procurement policy/procedures that was implemented by the organization; and/or I have used cost and price analysis to finalize modifications. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).