Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead a diverse workforce.** Performed leadership functions by setting goals to accomplish the work and ensuring colleagues or team members understood duties or delegated tasks to maximize efficiency and productivity. Demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies: Demonstrated the ability to gain a broad understanding of the organizational mission to identify requirements and plan work; Took the initiative to analyze, solve issues and accept responsibility for outcomes; Enforced standards by communicating expectations and monitoring productivity of others; Ensured quality control by monitoring the integrity and consistency of the work performed; Negotiated the resolution of conflicting interests; Fostered collaboration between people and facilitated group discussions to improve processes and performance; Motivated and provided direction with constructive feedback and coaching to staff. Answer to this question is required Led a group of employees/colleagues or team members in accomplishing the work of an organization, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Led a group of employee’s colleagues/team in accomplishing the work of an organization, performing SIX (6) to SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. Led a group of employees/ colleagues/team in accomplishing the work of an organization, performing FOUR (4) to FIVE (5) of the above responsibilities. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to provide administrative program management, evaluation, and oversight for a federal human resources component of an organization.** Provided administrative program management for an organization&rsquo;s federal human resources office. Planned, organized and oversaw the work activities and schedules of a program. Also, managed and evaluated program objectives and made recommendations for effective changes and organization needs. Answer to this question is required Independently provided federal agency program management; oversaw work activities and monitored progress of a human resources program. Analyzed information to discern agency program patterns, trends and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Completed program goals on time or ahead of schedule. Developed strategies, made recommendations/ proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Independently provided federal organizational program management; oversaw work activities and monitored progress of a human resources program. Analyzed information to discern organizational program patterns, trends and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Completed program goals on time or ahead of schedule. Developed strategies, made recommendations/ proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. Independently provided federal departmental program management; oversaw work activities and monitored progress of a human resources program. Analyzed information to discern departmental program patterns, trends and relationships. Routinely evaluated the effectiveness of the programs and operations in meeting established goals and objectives. Completed program goals on time or ahead of schedule. Developed strategies, made recommendations/ proposals, and implemented plans to improve program effectiveness. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to provide program, policy advice and leadership oversight.** Served as the principal advisor on policy matters related to program management, protocol guidance and undefined issues and elements for successful program management. Developed and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. Counseled management and staff and advised on appropriate methods and techniques to achieve program goals and objectives. Provided leadership on programs and projects with broad impact on workforce operations. Answer to this question is required Served as the principal advisor to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on ALL matters related to program management. Developed, conceived, planned, and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on ALL matters related to program management. Developed, conceived, planned, and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. Served as an advisor to senior management and other officials at multiple levels in an organization on SOME matters or segments of a program area. Developed, conceived, planned, and implemented policies and guidelines affecting programs. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide consultation or liaison services. Communicated and interacted with others to explain procedures clearly and concisely and provided consultation to others on human resources matters and business process improvement issues. Answer to this question is required Interacted and communicated with subject matter experts, the public, and staff concerning human resources matters and business processes. Routinely served as a liaison for the organization with internal and external organizations on business process improvement-related matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented complex human resources issues and business process improvement information to other organizations, senior management, bargaining unit representatives, subject matter experts, staff and the public and explained various of process improvement efforts of the organization. Interacted and communicated with a wide range of individuals, including subject matter experts, the public and staff concerning human resources matters and business processes. Served as a liaison for the organization on human resources matters and business process improvement-related matters. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented human resources issues and business process improvement information to other organizations, management, bargaining unit representatives, staff and the public and explained process improvement efforts of the organization. Interacted and communicated with a range of individuals, including the public and staff concerning human resources matters and business processes. Provided and explained specialized information to groups/individuals with varying levels of understanding of the subject matter. For example, presented human resources business process information to management, bargaining unit representatives, staff and the public and explained process improvement efforts of the organization. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote factual, analytic, and cogent documents in a variety of formats, including: 1) project plans, 2) management reports, 3) internal memoranda, 4) policies and procedures, 5) official correspondence, 6) presentations, 7) formal emails, and 8) staff manuals and orientation guides. Answer to this question is required As a PRIMARY job responsibility, wrote a variety of factual, analytic, and cogent documents, including ALL of the above. As a job responsibility, wrote a variety of factual, analytic, and cogent documents, including AT LEAST SIX of the above. As a job responsibility, wrote a variety of factual, analytic, and cogent documents, including AT LEAST FOUR above. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to analyze problems and make recommendations. Anticipated, defined, assessed, and recommended solutions related to management/organizational programs, processes, and activities by consulting with managers, staff, and stakeholders on the situation, facts, program goals, approaches, and solutions. Answer to this question is required Regularly ANTICIPATED, DEFINED, ASSESSED, AND RECOMMENDED SOLUTIONS to multifaceted problems with COMPANY/AGENCY-WIDE impact on productivity, performance, or efficiency. Regularly ASSESSED AND RECOMMENDED solutions to problems with major impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of the DEPARTMENT/OFFICE. These problems were anticipated and identified by management. Regularly ASSESSED AND RECOMMENDED solutions to problems with major impact on the productivity, performance, or efficiency of the WORK GROUP. These problems were anticipated and identified by management. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).