Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 In which of the following HR functions have you provided assistance to HR or Admin Program Specialist? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recruitment and Placement Employee Relations Staffing Position Classification Labor Relations Employee Development Position Development Performance Management Incentive Awards None of the above 5 Which of the following processing duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Review personnel actions for accuracy and completeness Establish and maintain personnel folders Assist in conducting orientation for new hires Conducts exit interviews to all separating employees explaining separation data Initiated or processed personnel actions Obtained information missing on forms to complete them. Reviewed detailed forms for accuracy and completeness Gathered data from various sources to prepare reports for office needs. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in interpreting and applying federal personnel regulations? Answer to this question is required I am familiar with federal regulations dealing with HR activities but have not applied these regulations as a regular part of my job experience. I interpret federal regulations dealing with HR activities as a regular part of my job experience and have trained others on their interpretation. I have written personnel procedures based on my interpretation of federal personnel regulations for the office. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in resolving discrepancies and obtaining additional information by contacting appropriate officials or searching employee records? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have normally been consulted by others for expertise and assistance or have trained others in this task. 8 Which of the following statements demonstrate administrative support activities in which you have personally engaged in? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the areas of time and attendance and reconciling leave and payroll problems. I have interpreted and applied routine administrative procedural guidelines in the preparation of a variety of administrative reports. I have tracked requests and ensured materials have been received. I have notified or reminded others of pending actions. I have served as administrative support providing such services as telephone changes, office moves, travel, time and attendance, and files maintenance. I have maintained my supervisor's calendar. I have maintained my staff's calendars. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Have you performed the following as part of your regular duties: process a variety of forms, produce and distribute routine reports, organize and maintain alpha, numeric and subject-matter files; answer the telephone, and provide information regarding procedures and personnel actions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following software applications are you proficient in? Proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality-capabilities. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Database management software (e.g., Farsight, Access, Filemaker Pro, Paradox, Oracle, Open Office or SQL). E-mail (e.g., Groupwise, CC Mail, Eudora, Lotus Notes, Outlook). Graphics or presentation software (e.g., Power Point, Paint Shop Pro, Microsoft Publisher, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio). Operating systems (e.g., Windows, Unix, Linux, Mac OS). Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus, Open Office, Quatro Pro). Word processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word or Corel Word Perfect). None of the above. 11 Which of the following automated tasks have you performed within the past year? Please remember that your resume will be used to verify this information. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used word processing software to create correspondence, create labels, etc. I have used word processing software to set up footnotes, outline formats and/or table of contents. I have used database to create tables, queries and/or reports. I have used an email package to maintain scheduled meetings (e.g., MS Outlook, Novell Groupwise, or any other internet-based package). I have used PeopleSoft or another software package to track personnel actions and/or financial transactions. I have edited text and merged documents in a personal computer. I have used a photocopy machine for large collation jobs. I have used a scanner to scan large document productions (e.g.,Text Bridge, Paper Port). I have used an automated travel program to generate travel documents and vouchers (i.e., Travel Manager/Jelco; eTravel Solutions, or on line-booking engines.) I have used an automated program to prepare time and attendance records. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 12 Which of the following describes your experience in using spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel) for each of the following purposes? Experience means that you have independently performed a duty numerous times without review or assistance. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have used spreadsheet software to create spreadsheets and charts from scratch, as necessary. I have used spreadsheet software to create reports, formulas/summaries, and/or sort data. I have used spreadsheet software to generate tables and graphs from data. I have used spreadsheet software package to track personnel actions and/or financial transactions. I have inputted information into an already existing spreadsheet. I have modified an existing spreadsheet or spreadsheet format. I have created reports from established spreadsheets. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 13 Which of the following describes your experience with Microsoft Word without review or assistance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed Mail Merges. I have prepared labels and envelopes. I have typed narrative correspondence, documents and reports to create outlines, footnotes, indexes or tables of content. I have created tables. I have formatted features (e.g., fonts, created templates, objects, pictures, publishing tools). None of the above. 14 Have you worked with HR or Admin Program Specialist on projects that involved answering questions, gathering and maintaining sensitive information, or providing assistance to employees in person, or by telephone? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Which of the following best describes your ability to communicate orally to inquiries or requests for information? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in orally responding to inquiries or request for information. I have responded orally to inquiries or requests for information on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have responded orally to inquiries or requests for information as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have responded orally to inquiries or requests for information as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following types of contacts have you interacted or communicated with as a regular or recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Personnel and staff within my own agency or organization Personnel and staff outside of my organization Supervisors within my own division Supervisors within my own agency Senior managers or officials in other divisions Senior managers or officials outside of my own agency None of the above 17 Which of the following types of audiences have you presented technical and non-technical information to as a regular or recurring part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Staff within my own agency or organization. Supervisors within my own division. Supervisors within my own agency. Senior managers or officials in other divisions. None of the above 18 Have you notified offices or individuals, in writing, of decisions, conclusions, findings, recommendations, problems, or further actions needed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following reflect your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports or other documents? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school training or education in written communication, but have not performed these tasks on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda, etc.). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, research results, newsletters, metrics, etc.). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor’s signature, proper format, grammatical or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections to my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.). I have made grammatical corrections to other people’s work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.