Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as it relates to this position. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience implementing practices and procedures to conform to security policies, directives, and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this and/or I have trained others so they could perform this task. I am consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing an organization’s strengths and weaknesses to develop strategic plans and formulate objectives and/or priorities? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others to perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating and making recommendations to existing practices and procedures to change security policies, directives, and/or regulations? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task I have no education, training, or experience performing this task I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee 5 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing and mitigating security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities impacting critical infrastructure and assets? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in interpreting or applying security policies or compliance requirements. I have received education and training in security policies and compliance requirements but have not applied them in a leadership capacity. I have applied security policies and compliance requirements under the guidance of senior leadership. I have independently led the implementation of security policies and compliance programs within a program, division, or operational area. I have led the interpretation and implementation of complex security policies and compliance programs across multiple operational areas, and I regularly advise senior leadership on policy application and compliance matters. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your experience managing personnel shortages, resolving workplace conflict, and ensuring mission-critical objectives are achieved? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing staffing challenges or resolving workplace conflict. I have received training in workforce management and conflict resolution but have not applied it in a leadership capacity. I have supported staffing and conflict resolution efforts under senior leadership guidance. I have independently managed staffing shortages and resolved personnel conflicts within a program or operational unit while maintaining mission effectiveness. I have led complex operations across multiple areas with staffing constraints, resolved sensitive or high-impact personnel conflicts, and regularly advise senior leadership on workforce strategy, risk, and mission execution. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience identifying areas in which practices and procedures do not conform to current security policies, directives, and regulations? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following statements best describes your experience interpreting security policies, directives, and compliance requirements? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. 9 Which of the following statements best describes your experience leading the interpretation and implementation of security policies, directives, and compliance programs? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in interpreting or applying security policies or compliance requirements. I have received education and training in security policies and compliance requirements but have not applied them in a leadership capacity. I have applied security policies and compliance requirements under the guidance of senior leadership. I have independently led the implementation of security policies and compliance programs within a program, division, or operational area. I have led the interpretation and implementation of complex security policies and compliance programs across multiple operational areas, and I regularly advise senior leadership on policy application and compliance matters. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience developing and executing contingency and continuity of operations plans to mitigate risks and ensure mission continuity? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in contingency or continuity planning. I have received training in contingency planning but have not applied it in a leadership capacity. I have contributed to contingency planning efforts under supervision or senior leadership guidance. I have independently developed and implemented contingency and continuity plans within a program or operational area. I have led complex contingency and continuity planning efforts across multiple operational areas and advise senior leadership on readiness, resilience, and risk mitigation strategies. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to apply knowledge of security issues, threats, and/or challenges facing cultural property? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed in on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your experience assessing short-term and/or long-term policy or procedural changes to cultural property security programs? Answer to this question is required I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee I have no education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience developing contingency plans to overcome possible risks or threats to achieve organizational objectives? Answer to this question is required I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 14 Which of the following statements best describes your experience assessing and implementing short- and long-term policy, programmatic, and procedural changes to security/safety programs? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience assessing or implementing policy or procedural changes. I have received training in evaluating policies and procedures but have not applied it in a leadership capacity. I have participated in policy or procedural changes under senior leadership guidance. I have independently assessed and implemented policy and procedural changes within a program or operational area. I have led significant program-level improvements and policy changes across multiple areas, and I advise senior leadership on strategic adjustments and program effectiveness. 15 Which of the following statements best describes your experience establishing and using performance metrics and benchmarks to evaluate and improve operational effectiveness? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience developing or using performance metrics. I have received training in performance measurement but have not applied it in a leadership capacity. I have applied established metrics under supervision or senior leadership guidance. I have independently developed and applied performance metrics and benchmarks within a program or operational unit. I have led the development and application of metrics across multiple operational areas, using data to drive improvements and regularly advising senior leadership on performance and outcomes. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience determining resources to achieve organizational objectives? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Which of the following statements best describes your experience determining benchmarks and metrics to monitor operational effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task. Others consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education and training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. 18 Which of the following statements best describes your experience leading and developing teams through mentorship, accountability, and professionalism to accomplish mission objectives? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience leading teams or developing personnel. I have received training in leadership principles but have not applied them in a supervisory capacity. I have led teams under senior leadership guidance, supporting accountability and professional conduct. I have independently led teams, mentoring personnel, addressing performance issues, and fostering a professional and respectful work environment. I have led multiple teams or complex operations, consistently developing personnel, promoting accountability and civility, and advising senior leadership on workforce performance and organizational climate. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.