Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 Choose one answer which best describes your basic requirements for Architect positions. I have a degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I do NOT meet the basic qualifications requirements. 4 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 5 Choose one answer which best describes your registration as a professional engineer or architect. Answer to this question is required I possess current registration as a professional engineer in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I possess current registration as an architect in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I do not possess registration as a professional engineer or an architect. 6 Which of the following architectural/engineering design duties do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Planning for assigned projects for the construction/remodeling of facilities. Organizing for assigned projects for the construction/remodeling of facilities. Directing and controlling the development of technical drawings. Preparing contract drawings and specifications for assigned projects for the construction/remodeling of facilities. Performing construction inspections. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best demonstrates your experience serving as a lead/senior architect responsible for developing and preparing construction drawings, specifications, construction cost estimates, and schedules for design projects. Answer to this question is required I have assisted in developing and preparing construction drawings, specifications, construction cost estimates, and schedules for design projects with complex building programs for museums, laboratories, academic and/or cultural facilities, from inception through occupancy, with a construction budget less than 10M. I have assisted in developing and preparing construction drawings, specifications, construction cost estimates, and schedules for design projects with complex building programs for museums, laboratories, academic and/or cultural facilities, from inception through occupancy, with a construction budget of 10M or more. I have experience serving as a lead/senior architect responsible for developing and preparing construction drawings, specifications, construction cost estimates, and schedules for design projects with complex building programs for museums, laboratories, academic and/or cultural facilities, from inception through occupancy, with a construction budget less than 10M. I have experience serving as a lead/senior architect responsible for developing and preparing construction drawings, specifications, construction cost estimates, and schedules for design projects with complex building programs for museums, laboratories, academic and/or cultural facilities, from inception through occupancy, with a construction budget of 10M or more. None of the above 8 Which of the following types of reviews do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cross-disciplinary quality control and coordination review of construction drawings and specifications for design projects with complex architecture and engineering scope Review of construction drawings and specifications for codes and standards compliance and technical correctness Constructability review of construction drawings and specifications None of the above 9 Choose one answer which best describes your registration as a professional engineer. Answer to this question is required I possess current registration as a professional engineer in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I do not possess registration as a professional engineer. 10 Which of the following best describes your prior work experience (Federal or other) in the architectural engineering design field? Answer to this question is required I have led others in the production or review of design and construction documents for large, new construction or major renovation projects. I have served as a team member producing or reviewing design and construction documents for new construction or major renovation projects. I have produced or reviewed design and construction for the repair or redesign of existing facilities. None of the above 11 Which of the following specific tasks do you have experience (Federal or other) performing in the architectural engineering design field? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Oral and graphic presentations to groups with varying backgrounds Management of and coordination with multidisciplinary teams in the preparation of construction documents Exhibit design and/or coordination of architecture/engineering infrastructure with exhibit design by others None of the above 12 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 13 Which of the following best describes your experience procuring goods and services for an organization including preparing product specifications and "statements of work" for contract services? Answer to this question is required I have experience conducting negotiations with vendors, verifying the availability of funds, preparing contracts and purchase orders and ensuring that goods and services are received, accounted for and paid for. I have experience ensuring that expenditures are made in accordance with established policies organizational and Federal government policies and rules. I have experience reviewing documents authorizing payments of funds. I have experience determining the proper amount due and processing the necessary payment transactions. I have experience responding to written or oral inquiries concerning payments or audit-related information. I do not have related experience. 14 Which of the following describes your experience in the performance of procurement activities?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods and services. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have not performed these job functions. 15 Which of the following types of written communication have you created in a professional setting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional e-mails Formal letters Memos Components of technical reports Complete technical reports None of the above 16 Which of the following types of individuals do you have experience communicating in writing with as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professors and university advisers Administrative staff Architects and engineers Construction contractors Construction management staff Museum professionals None of the above 17 Have you authored, supervised, managed or directed complex project, program, information or decision papers/reports that have been staffed or reviewed by upper management, agency heads, or department level clients or users? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Have you presented or briefed complex project, program, information, or decision issues to upper management, agency heads, or department level clients or users? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following types of individuals do you have experience communicating verbally with as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professors and university advisers Administrative staff Architects and engineers Construction contractors Construction management staff Museum professionals None of the above 20 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations 21 In which of the following settings do you have experience gathering factual information through conversations or interviews for use in projects or reports? Answer to this question is required Academic settings as a student. A professional settings as an intern or employee. Both academic as well as professional settings. None of the above. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience providing information and instructions to staff and contractors? Answer to this question is required I have attended project meetings to receive instructions. I have participated in project meetings by offering input. I have assisted in the coordination and management of project meetings. I have coordinated and led project meetings. I do not have experience with project meetings but am willing to learn. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.