Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to apply administrative processes and techniques. ** Applied administrative processes and techniques in a professional office setting, and performed the following activities: 1) acted as a liaison for the office; 2) applied administrative policies and procedures as needed, provided advice and guidance to managers and employees on administrative issues, questions, and situations; 3) handled travel arrangements, safety inspections, and security issues; 4) maintained official correspondence and files; 5) set up and revised administrative systems and processes for tracking pending tasks or work activities and meeting administrative requirements; 6) implemented records management procedures; and 7) managed printing requests. Answer to this question is required In an administrative capacity, performed ALL activities listed above and routinely provided advice and guidance to managers, supervisors, and staff on policies, procedures, regulations, and administrative requirements. Served as the primary liaison with other offices within the agency/organization, facilitating effective communication, coordination, and resolution of administrative matters. In an administrative capacity performed SIX (6) of the activities listed above. Routinely provided advice and guidance to managers, supervisors, and/or staff regarding policies, procedures, regulations, and other requirements related to administrative functions. In an administrative capacity, performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the activities listed above. Occasionally, provided guidance to managers supervisors, and/or staff on issues regarding policies, procedures and regulations related to administrative functions. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to plan, organize and execute work. ** Planned, organized and completed projects supporting the administrative work of an office. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, independently planned, organized, prioritized, and completed multiple complex administrative duties for more than one (1) high-level manager, while independently responding to and coordinating with a wide variety of individuals. Effectively managed competing priorities, exercised sound judgment, and adjusted plans to accommodate multiple demands, changing priorities, and unanticipated events while ensuring timely and accurate completion of assignments. As a primary responsibility, independently planned, organized, prioritized, and completed multiple administrative duties for one (1) high-level manager and/or multiple staff members, while responding to and coordinating with various individuals. Adjusted priorities and schedules to address competing demands, changing assignments, and occasional unanticipated events, ensuring work was completed accurately and within established deadlines. As a member of a team of administrative staff, planned, organized, and completed routine administrative duties in support of one (1) manager or work unit, while responding to routine requests from employees, customers, and other individuals. Adjusted priorities as needed to accommodate changing assignments and competing demands, seeking guidance when priorities conflicted or unexpected situations arose. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to utilize computer technology. ** Supported the administrative work of an organization by utilizing a variety of software applications including the following: 1) word-processing (e.g., Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 3) email, 4) electronic calendar, 5) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint), 6) internet software (e.g., Explorer, Firefox, Chrome), 7) database management (e.g., Access), 8) automated file and/or tracking systems (e.g., Momentum, eManagement), 9) automated personnel/payroll data systems (e.g., GovTA, EmpowHR and NFC), 10) automated reports generating systems (e.g., Crystal Reports), and 11) various office equipment (e.g., digital photocopy machine, scanner and fax machine). Answer to this question is required Routinely used ALL of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. Routinely used NINE (9) or TEN (10) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. Routinely used SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above computer technology to provide administrative support to an organization. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others, exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide liaison services. Worked well and cooperated with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, contractors and other service and support units) to provide positive and professional consultation and liaison services, anticipating their current and future needs and exchanging accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, served as the administrative specialist for an organization, collaborating regularly with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Regularly and effectively communicated with individuals to resolve problems and issues of a sensitive, confidential and controversial nature. As a primary job responsibility, served as an administrative specialist for an organization, collaborating regularly with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and issues of a sensitive and/or confidential nature. As a primary job responsibility, served as an administrative assistant for an organization. This included collaborating primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated with individuals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive and/or confidential nature. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Drafted, reviewed, and edited a variety of written products such as: 1) administrative memoranda, 2) correspondence, 3) administrative policies and procedures, 4) responses to inquiries from staff, 5) budgetary and management reports, and 6) ad hoc reports. Answer to this question is required As a primary responsibility, independently drafted, reviewed, and edited ALL of the above documents for final distribution, ensuring all documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. As a primary responsibility and with minimal supervision drafted, reviewed and edited ALL of the above documents’ final distribution, ensuring all documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. As a primary responsibility and with minimal supervision drafted, reviewed and edited FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above documents including 1) and 2), for final distribution, ensuring all documents met standards for clarity, consistency, and format. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).