Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your experience applying Federal statutes and authorities to security related matters. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training applying Federal statutes and/or authorities. I have completed formal education or training pertaining to the application of Federal statutes and authorities that are related to the security field,but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have applied Federal statutes and/or authorities to security and related issues under close supervision. I have applied Federal statutes and/or authorities to security and related issues as a regular part of a job, independently without supervision. I have routinely applied Federal statutes and authorities to security and related issues as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in applying Federal statutes and authorities to security and related issues and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 2 Which of the following reflects your highest level of experience developing mission objectives? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others who developed mission objectives. I have participated on a team that developed mission objectives. I have independently developed mission objectives. I have led others charged with developing mission objectives. I have no experience developing mission objectives. 3 I have the following experience in strategic planning and goal setting: Check all that apply Answer to this question is required Develop annual and long-range plans, strategies and goals Implement annual and long-range plans, strategies and goals Manage annual and long-range plans, strategies and goals Evaluate annual and long-range plans, strategies and goals None of the above 4 From the following list of physical and industrial security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully managed. Answer to this question is required Dignitary Protection Force Protection High-threat Security Protective Liaison Guard Force Operations First responder / First Aid Chemical / Biological Response Physical Security Technical Security Construction Security Transportation Security Residential Security None of the above 5 Which of the following leadership responsibilities have you performed in a work unit or as part of a team assignment? Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing operating budgets. Planning work assignments and schedules. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Following up with employees. Allocating resources. Developing workforce plans. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Implementing work completed. Delegating responsibilities. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 6 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work? Answer to this question is required I plan and organize my work under close supervision. I have assisted others in planning and organizing their work. I have participated on a team that planned and organized work. I have independently planned and organized work. I have led others charged with planning and organizing work. I have no experience planning and organizing work. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your experience communicating verbally? Answer to this question is required I have regularly met with colleagues for the purposes of clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have provided briefings to my supervisor and/or senior management. I have conducted training sessions. I have regularly served as a representative in dealing with managers and employees. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups. I have regularly conducted discussions and/or participated in workgroups as a program representative in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. None of the above. 9 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private organizations Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials None of the above 10 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.