Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your employment in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court, or Court System). Answer to this question is required I am a court employee and have worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a full-time temporary employee (FTT) or While Actually Employed (WAE) in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a court employee and have not worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System). However, I am eligible because this position is in my current division. None of the above 2 Select the choice that best describes the highest level of education attained and work experience in mediation or Alternative Dispute Resolution. Answer to this question is required LLM/PhD and three (3) years of work experience in mediation or Alternative Dispute Resolution. J. D. degree and three (3) years of work experience in mediation or Alternative Dispute Resolution. Master's degree and three (3) years of work experience in mediation or Alternative Dispute Resolution. Bachelor's degree and five (5) years of work experience in mediation or Alternative Dispute Resolution. None of the above. 3 I have at least forty (40) hours of formal mediation training. Answer to this question is required True False 4 I have two (2) or more years of supervisory experience. Answer to this question is required True False 5 Select the response(s) that best describes your highest level of experience communicating in writing. Answer to this question is required I have produced policy documents, project plans, study proposals, and recommendations. I have researched and written reports, plans and proposals that support the business decision of the organization (e.g. making major systems purchases). I have prepared project plans, option papers, and recommendations on projects and assignments that facilitate management decision-making. I have prepared written products for technical purposes serving institutional or operational needs. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your level of experience monitoring and evaluating mediators? Answer to this question is required As part of my duties, I have monitored and evaluated the performance of mediators. I have monitored and evaluated the performance of mediators as directed by my supervisor. I have requested assistance through a supervisor or co-worker to evaluate the performance of mediators. None of the above. 7 Which best describes your experience providing case management and record keeping activities related to domestic relations (family), truancy or child protection mediations and conciliations processes? Answer to this question is required I have applied knowledge of case management and record keeping principles and techniques. For example, developed a new case file management or record keeping system in general or for a specific mediation program; coordinated parties, scheduled mediations and tracked cases. I have applied knowledge of case management and record keeping principles and techniques. For example, modified an existing case file management system and assisted with the coordination of parties, the scheduling of mediations and tracking of cases. I have applied a working knowledge of case management and record keeping principles and techniques. For example, maintained a case management or record keeping system, assisted with the coordination of parties, the scheduling of mediations and tracking of cases. None of the above. 8 Please identify the areas in which you have education, training, or experience. Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Arbitration Counseling Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) None of the above 9 What is the highest level of oral communication skill you have applied on a regular basis? Answer to this question is required I received training in public speaking/presentation skills. I have presented project status information to either internal or external organizations. I have performed training and demonstrations. I have performed formal project presentations to review boards/committees. I have advocated and negotiated with senior-level management both internal and external regarding project initiatives to obtain approval and funding. None of the above. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).