Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a PH.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skill and ability necessary to do the work. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work. I have 1 year of SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE at or equivalent to GS-9 level in the announcement. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience acting as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting to serve as financial advisor to members of management staff. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which of the following describes your experience using financial and management information systems such as the Enterprise Resource Management System (ERP) and Excel spreadsheets to allow the comparison of a variety of forms and financial documents to resolve financial questions and to prepare financial reports? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing reports to identify variances between the accounting systems and budget reports or other internal reports detailing reasons for variance and presenting possible solutions. I have work experience preparing internal financial reports for an organization on items such as monthly updates to salary models, reports detailing telecommunications charges, and monthly expenditure reports by department identification. I have work experience completing forms and spreadsheets to prepare financial reports for an organization using an automated financial system such as ERP. I have work experience completing forms and spreadsheets to prepare financial reports for an organization without using an automated financial system. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of official policies surrounding regulated financial transactions and experience in creating, reconciling, and managing multiple program or unit managed cuff records for regulated funds? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in official policies through creating, reconciling, and managing program or unit managed cuff records for funds with many types of regulations. I have experience and knowledge in managing and reconciling internal cuff records for various types of regulated funding. I have knowledge of official policies and how to research regulations surrounding different types of funding. I have experience reconciling internal cuff records. I have general knowledge of different types of funding but no experience in managing those different funding sources. I have no experience with cuff records or none of the above. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records and monthly reporting of reconciliation reports to a program manager(s) to include federally appropriated funds, grants, gifts and other funds? Answer to this question is required I have experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records and monthly reporting of reconciliation reports to a program manager(s). I have experience monitoring all fund and contract balances by maintaining cuff records. I have experience with reconciliation. I do not have related experience. 6 Which of the following statements best reflects your experience evaluating data, preparing reports, creating presentations utilizing excel, PowerPoint or pivot charts, and making recommendations to management? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and created PowerPoint presentations using charts and graphs to make recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in evaluating data, preparing reports, and utilizing programs such as PowerPoint to make presentations. I have evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management, but have not created any presentations using PowerPoint or graphics. I have had education or training evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. 7 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have NOT performed these job functions. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as the approving official for procurement, travel, purchase cards, and other administrative and management functions? Answer to this question is required I have experience providing guidance and instructions on proper steps to be followed when procuring goods and services. I have also reviewed purchase orders and contracts to ensure they comply with federal regulations. I have experience authorizing the expenditure of funds via government purchase cards and ensure that such expenditures meet federal guidelines. I have experience reviewing travel requests to ensure that they are in accordance with federal travel regulations. I have experience providing guidance and assistance to travelers and administrative staff in preparing travel authorizations, field advances, and submitting travel vouchers. I have experience ensuring that funds are available, travel is mission essential, and supervisory approvals have been given before approving travel authorizations. None of the above. 9 Please choose as many of the following statements which demonstrates your experience coordinating travel or preparing for meetings (Experience means you have independently performed this task numerous times without review or assistance from others). Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) procedures and/or regulations. I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with on-line booking engines. I have advised office personnel on travel requirements and procedures. I have explained the complexities of travel requirements to office personnel and provided guidance on appropriate travel documentation. I have prepared and/or reviewed travel vouchers for compliance with current guidelines. I have prepared individual travel orders for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel orders for foreign travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for foreign travel. I have prepared invitational travel orders. I have prepared travel related documents using an automated system, such as Travel Manager. I have reconciled travel problems. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 10 Choose the statement that best describes your experience researching federal and SI travel regulations and policies. Answer to this question is required I independently research federal regulations and SI travel policies to provide advice and guidance on a wide range of travel issues as a regular part of my job. I research federal regulations and SI travel policies in order to respond to general inquiries from staff members. I usually confirm my interpretations with a more experienced staff member before responding. I occasionally research federal travel regulations and SI policies in order to respond to general inquiries. I do not have any experience researching travel policies and procedures in order to provide advice and guidance to others. 11 Which of the following tasks pertaining to travel policy compliance have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Field expenses review. International itineraries review. Expense documentation review. Senior executive travel review. Justifying exceptions to policy. Coaching other staff on navigation and usage of online travel management tools. Researching organizational travel policy options. Foreign currency conversions for expense calculations. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 12 Which reflects your experience in performing personnel activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched definitions of and proper procedures for personnel actions. I have provided guidance on personnel actions. I have initiated requests for personnel actions in an automated HR system such as ERP, PeopleSoft, or HRMS. I have tracked requests for personnel actions. I have coordinated or prepared personnel requests in accordance with recruitment and merit promotion procedures. I have responded to routine HR inquiries from staff. I have attended courses in human resources management and administration. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 13 Which of the following personnel actions have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have processed personnel actions and maintained records. I have made recommendations related to various personnel actions.. I have implemented personnel decisions. I have managed and tracked actions in the areas of recruiting, promotion, training, EEO, disciplinary actions and performance plans and evaluations.. I have coordinated and reviewed recruitment, selection, promotion, awards and training activities to assure compatibility with staffing plans, personnel ceilings, and funding levels. I have served as the liaison on personnel/human resources management matters. I have functioned as a team leader and as the primary organizational or project representative. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.