Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience working as a team leader for employees performing painting tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Which activities have you performed as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Assigned tasks to employees, taking into account workload and skill levels Reviewed completed work to ensure instructions were followed Encouraged employees to participate in team planning activities Communicated information to employees regarding work requirements and timelines Monitored work progress Provided technical direction to team members in accomplishing tasks None of the above 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed to manage the performance of your subordinates? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Completed performance appraisals for subordinates. Documented employee performance. Selected employees for promotion. Interviewed job applicants. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Oversaw on-the-job training of subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Acted on disciplinary matters. None of the above. 4 What is the largest number of subordinates that you have monitored and evaluated? Answer to this question is required Less than 5 From 5 to 9 From 10 to 14 From 15 to 19 From 20 to 24 25 or more None of the above 5 When faced with tight deadlines, changing priorities, and conflicting responsibilities, which of the following best describes your work style? Answer to this question is required I strive for the challenge. I am at my best when working under pressure. I adapt well to changing needs. I re-prioritize workloads and coordinate with others to get the work done. I work best in a structured environment; however, I usually adapt well to emergency situations. I do not adapt well to conflicting situations and priorities. I like to know what is expected of me at all times. I have not had experience working in an office with this type of requirement. 6 Which computer applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Powerpoint Microsoft Access Adobe Acrobat Professional None of the above 7 Do you have experience using a computer to submit time and attendance or complete work orders? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select the procedures you have used to repair minor imperfections in wood surfaces. Answer to this question is required Graining Sanding Spot Priming Surfacing Sealing Knots Filling Imperfections Feathering Imperfections by Sanding None of the above 9 Which response best describes your highest level of refinishing experience? Answer to this question is required I have not performed refinishing. I have completed training on refinishing but have not performed it at work. I have refinished a feature that was somewhat hidden from sight (e.g., baseboard in a closet). I have rebuilt the corner of a piece of furniture using wood putty. I have refinished a substantial feature or piece of furniture that was highly visible or historic. 10 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Select all of the special finishing techniques you have applied. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Marbling Graining Texturing Fauxing Stenciling None of the above 12 Which decorative finishing/painting techniques have you performed? Answer to this question is required Marbleizing Striping Glazing Graining Sponging None of the above 13 Select the elevated support products you have used, constructed, erected, and disassembled. Answer to this question is required Scaffolds (Mechanical, ground-based, rolling, stationary, ladder jack) Aerial work platforms Aluminum and wooden planks Extension ladders Swing stages Step ladders None of the above 14 Select the equipment that you have used to apply coating. Answer to this question is required Brushes and rollers Conventional sprayers Airless and air-assisted sprayers High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) sprayers None of the above 15 Select all of the tools you have used when performing painting tasks. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Tape measures Straight edges Levels Lasers Basic brushes and rollers Putty knives Spray equipment None of the above 16 Select the types of sealers you have applied. Answer to this question is required Varnishes Latex Alcohol and lacquer-based Water-borne polyurethane Primary Sealers Undercoats None of the above 17 Please select all of the surfaces for which you have applied paint. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Drywall/Plaster Other Surfaces None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.