Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Do you have experience with such work with a Federal, State, municipal, local, or private protective organization that involved the protection of property against such hazards as fire, theft, damage, accident, or trespass; or maintaining order and protecting life. Such experience must have provided a knowledge of protective systems and techniques. Acceptable experience includes service in the Armed Services or Coast Guard that involved the performance of guard duties on a regular or intermittent basis. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in conducting inspections to ensure adequate security coverage? Answer to this question is required I have limited experience performing this task. I have conducted occasional unscheduled inspections of posts to ensure adequate security coverage on behalf of a senior security guard. I have performed this task independently and as a regular part of my job. I have conducted frequent unscheduled inspections of posts to ensure adequate security coverage; and I have performed uniform and personal inspections to make certain that officers are ready, willing and able to perform their duties. I have supervised this task. I have experience overseeing subordinate supervisors who conduct frequent unscheduled inspections of posts to ensure adequate security coverage and who perform uniform and personal inspections to make certain that officers are ready, willing and able to perform their duties. I promptly take appropriate action when guard strength is insufficient. I do not have experience in performing this task. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of security operations to include use of security technology? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing security operations. I have experience in managing security operations. I have experience in managing security operations and experience in the operation of security technical equipment. I have experience in managing security operations, developing methods to safeguard institutional assets, and maintaining efficient security operations response with minimum experience in security technology. I am considered an expert in managing security operations, developing methods to safeguard institutional assets, and establishing and maintaining efficient security operations to include designing technical security programs for protection of government buildings on a 24-hour basis. 5 Which of the following statements best indicates your knowledge of state-of-the-art security equipment and devices utilized in electronic security, intrusion detection, access control, CCTV, communication, security monitoring and control, and large integrated security systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training with these systems and measures. I have completed formal education or training on implementing these systems and measures. I have experience implementing or recommending these measures or systems under supervision. I have independently implemented or recommended these systems or measures. I am considered my agency’s technical authority on state-of-the-art security equipment and devices utilized in electronic security, intrusion detection, access control, CCTV, communication, security monitoring and control, and large integrated security systems. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with monitoring a security management system in a highly complex museum or open campus environment? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in monitoring a security management system in a highly complex museum or open campus environment. I have had education or training monitoring a security management system in a highly complex museum or open campus environment, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have monitored a security management system on the job. My work in this capacity was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures I have actively monitored a complex security management system as a regular part of my job function. I have performed it independently and normally without direct oversight by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in monitoring a security management system in a highly complex museum or open campus environment. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in conveying messages to proper personnel and maintaining an activity log? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this tsk as regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisors or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following most accurately describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the classroom. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in receiving and dispatching radio and telephone transmissions? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Which of the following types of systems you have experience troubleshooting? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience troubleshooting Access Control. I have experience troubleshooting Intrusion Detection. I have experience troubleshooting Closed Circuit Television (CCTV). I have experience troubleshooting Intercom. I have experience troubleshooting Vehicle Barriers. I have experience troubleshooting Magnetometers. I have experience troubleshooting X-Ray machines. I have no experience with any of the above. 11 Which of the following have you reviewed, evaluated, and performance tested? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Security search systems. Access control systems. Automated access cont systems. Entry/exit inspection systems. None of the above. 12 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in evacuation efforts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in evacuation plans. I have experience in evacuation plans. I have experience in the development of evacuation plans and/or the implementation of action plans for government agencies. I have experience in the designing and development of evacuation plans and implementing action plans for government agencies. This includes serving as a coordinator and site supervisor for all emergency evacuation drills. I am considered an expert in developing, organizing, and directing emergency planning. This includes serving as a manager in law enforcement, emergency response and preparedness, and evacuation planning for local, state, and federal government agencies. 13 Which of the following statements best describes your experience identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities unique to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities when conducting building inspections and design review? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training in identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities unique to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities when conducting building inspections and design review. I have completed formal education or training in identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities unique to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities when conducting building inspections and design review, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have identified potential threats and vulnerabilities unique to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities when conducting building inspections and design review on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have identified potential threats and vulnerabilities unique to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities when conducting building inspections and design review as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have identified potential threats and vulnerabilities unique to cultural properties, major national Icons, or Federal facilities when conducting building inspections and design review as a central or major part of my work routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am considered my agency’s technical expert on such matters. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.