Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-12 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-12, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-12 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-12 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-12, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-12, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-11 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-12 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-12 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Program Specialist interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and give or receive advice and guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations related to the overall drug testing program for the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised/instructed clerical and administrative staff regarding interpretations/clarifications of guidelines/policies/procedures; and/or I have maintained appropriate and highly professional relationship with staff/inmates; and/or I have contacted JCAHO in order to clarify information for medical facility; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have directed inquiries requiring in-depth information to the appropriate staff. I have provided technical information during a budget meeting; and/or I have assisted American Correctional Association (ACA) medical coordinator; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding a special project; and/or I have provided feedback at a workforce utilization meeting. I have provided interpretation of highly technical policies and/or procedures to staff; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within specific area; and/or I have facilitated technical training to staff at all levels; and/or I have provided information to an administrator that assisted them with his/her program area; and/or I have interacted with BOP managers while involved in a project; and/or I have coordinated meetings of the Utilization Management Committee; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have exchanged technical data and information with various members of the agency, which included employees from the institution, region and the Central Office. None of the above. 5 The Program Specialist communicates in writing with staff at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, charts, etc., to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. Correspondence will vary from internal departmental documents up to and including assisting in the preparation of reports to outside entities, (i.e., OIG, Congress, and the White House). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have worked with Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) to develop statement of work for project/service within the department; and/or I have conducted surveys and provided written recommendations to appropriate manager(s). I have developed meeting agenda, training session materials and participant handouts; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have edited/corrected/suggested revisions for incoming technical documents to be forwarded to Executive Staff; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements and/or technical guidelines for staff within the department. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. None of the above. 6 The Program Specialist must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including GroupWise, Microsoft software, Drug Free Workplace Program (DFWP) data management systems, to be able to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data and, provide information for interpretations. He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered information into already established databases for medical, surgical psychiatric; and/or I have entered and retrieved data using Microsoft Word; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have researched and retrieved information from Sallyport; and/or I have manipulated information and data for use in data processing. I have maintained and entered information into databases for medical, surgical and psychiatric admissions for tracking/trending purposes; and/or I have provided basic software technical support for PC users and associated equipment; and/or I have trained management/line staff to use computer programs (i.e., grammar checking, outlining systems, idea processors, project management, decision modeling programs); and/or I have developed and/or assisted with development of highly detailed and technical presentations for superiors, using a variety of software, in order for them to make presentations for meetings, conferences or task/work groups; and/or I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters using Microsoft Office by entering data and running reports; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information. I have developed and utilized information databases for medical, surgical and psychiatric admissions for tracking requirements and trending purposes to identify most effective utilization of resources; and/or I have maintained position control or expenditures using an established tracking system/spreadsheet; and/or I have provided advanced software technical support to users of personal computers and associated equipment and utilized a variety of computer programs; and/or I have utilized a wide variety of hardware and software; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency specific data base to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have used available automated systems to retrieve statistical data or perform research assignments; and/or I have programmed/set parameters to software application programs; and/or I have entered or retrieved data from a server or personal computer to formulate graphs/spreadsheets. None of the above. 7 The Program Specialist collects, analyzes, and interprets information such as medical trending data (i.e., rates of diabetes, HIV, TB, etc.), retention data for staff, etc. He/she plans, develops and conducts internal review studies on activities and organizations of certain limited capacity. He/she use the studies to assess program compliance and develop improved techniques to meet organizational goals determined by supervisor. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have collected, maintained and provided data for physicians concerning appropriateness of housing, admission review and length of stay, based on review of patient status/diagnosis, current treatments and community standards; and/or I have assisted departments in developing/adapting guidelines for producing quality care in most cost effective manner; and/or I have created spreadsheets using basic formulas on a single worksheet; and/or I have analyzed travel costs, supply charges from medical departments to determine budget requirements for the next fiscal year; and/or I have ran reports from pre-established programs; and/or I have tracked and reported cost information within branch. I have led a quality management team; and/or I have promoted appropriate quality patient care services; and/or I have extracted and input complex data from a spreadsheet; and/or I have analyzed and interpreted complex travel regulations for subordinates or other staff members; and/or I have distributed operating funds to cost center(s) within sections; and/or I have created various computer spreadsheets using formulas and multiple worksheets in Microsoft Excel or another type of spreadsheet; and/or I have reconciled fund control and reported discrepancies. I have coordinated a urinalysis Drug Free Workplace quality management team; and/or I have advised Cost Center Manager(s) of all cost center monies and expenditures; and/or I have coordinated with senior level staff regarding memorandums, policy procedure changes; and/or I have analyzed financial data at year-end to ensure proper classification of accruals and reported to cost center manager; and/or I have coordinated and managed the utilization management program by assisting in the planning, organization and evaluation of health care in a cost-effective manner. None of the above. 8 The Program Specialist must be able to utilize time and resources in order to devise plans, procedures or methods to carry out the work assignments related to the clerical and administrative functions of the Drug Free Workplace Program. He/she is accorded wide latitude for exercising independent judgement, time planning and resource management within the program. He/she must have an understanding of critical projects and the order and due dates which these projects will require completion. He/she must understand the significance, scope and effect of all phases of work performed and reviewed. He/she will be responsible for both scheduled and unscheduled collection of urinalysis samples, requiring flexibility and time management skills. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have organized and maintained logging system for all work categories in office; and/or I have reviewed work of incoming reports, Congressional correspondence, etc., to ensure completeness, accuracy, correct grammar and spelling; and/or I have assisted/made suggestions in order to assist less experienced staff in meeting time lines and due dates; and/or I have maintained calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to/before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code or accounting code, etc.); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step. I have organized a rotation of duties within the department in order to cross train and cover the duties of co-workers; and/or I have organized compressed work schedule request for immediate department; and/or I have assisted co-worker with projects assigned by management in order to meet specific deadlines; and/or I have requested training for self and co-workers based upon identifying the training needs within the department; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have provided assistance/guidance with work/project, if necessary, prior to due date. I have coordinated work as a team leader; and/or I have re-evaluated priorities of projects based on shifting time lines; and/or I have coordinated numerous work assignments ahead of due date; and/or I have established new filing systems or other data collection system and trained co-workers on the system; and/or I have used judgement in determining priorities of work assignments based on knowledge of operations/functions; and/or I have established systems enabling review and tracking of various documents (i.e., sensitive controlled, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, Privacy Act, congressional correspondence, reports, etc.); and/or I have established reporting deadlines and coordinated responses by determining appropriate follow-up procedures; and/or I have generated reports to keep abreast of on-going projects. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).