Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of digital conversion principles, procedures, and operations.** Knowledge of digital conversion principles, procedures and operations to create and assess digital reproductions of library materials. Answer to this question is required Utilized knowledge of some digital conversion principles, procedures, operations and workflows including inspection and quality control of digital assets in a library environment. Utilized limited knowledge of digital conversion principles, procedures, operations and/or workflows in digitizing library materials. Utilized limited knowledge of digital conversion principles, procedures, operations and/or workflows in digitizing non library materials. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize computer technology/software applications.** Utilized technology to perform work for an organization, including software and databases for 1) Word-Processing, (e.g., Word), 2) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel) and 3) web/internet searching. Identified the need for and applied computer technology to improve work processes. Answer to this question is required Routinely utilized ALL of the above technology to perform work in a library and identified the need for and applied technology to improve work processes related to digitizing library collections. Organized and keyed information and performed searches in databases. Routinely utilized ALL of the above technology to perform work and applied technology to improve work processes. Organized and keyed information and performed searches in databases. Routinely used ALL of the above to perform work. Organized and keyed information and performed searches in databases. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to attend to details in securing records.** Used the knowledge of processes and procedures to perform short- term or long-term assignments to perform arrangement and description work in a major body of records that describe digitized materials, including to: 1) identify duplicate digitized entries; 2) correct, add to, and edit existing records and 3) create new records by copying existing ones or employing templates when needed. Answer to this question is required Used knowledge of library processes and procedures to perform ALL of the above. Used knowledge of library processes and procedures to perform TWO (2) of the above. Used knowledge of record arrangement and description practices and procedures to use existing records and manage digitized collection materials. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to use computerized search tools, databases and web-based tools. Used computerized search tools, databases and functions needed for the input and retrieval of information in databases. Answer to this question is required Performed a sequence of detailed routines in searching online databases in a variety of databases that have different search interfaces and protocols. Organized data and keyed it into a system as prescribed by appropriate guidelines. Created and updated data for digital project production. Performed a sequence of detailed routines in searching online databases in a variety of databases that have different search interfaces and protocols. Organized data and keyed it into a system as prescribed by appropriate guidelines. Identified problems encountered when keying data, and brought them to the attention of a supervisor. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan and organize work assignments in order to meet deadlines. Searched, retrieved, and analyzed records; utilized automated databases, set work priorities and met deadlines within specified time limits. Answer to this question is required Applied advanced search techniques and followed established procedures to locate, retrieve, analyze and report on the factual content of records. Independently reviewed, analyzed and identified errors or gaps in data/records and as appropriate, recommended solutions or reported inconsistencies to others for further action. Established priorities when working with a large volume of work or diverse documents and transactions and met quality and timeliness goals/objectives. Applied basic search techniques and followed established procedures to locate, retrieve, and analyze the factual content of records. Identified errors or gaps in data/records and reported those inconsistencies to others for further action. Established priorities and met quality and timeliness goals/objectives. Applied basic search techniques and followed established procedures to locate and retrieve records. Established priorities and met quality and timeliness goals/objectives. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).