Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of office management principles, practices and the ability to analyze and recommend improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in office management principles, practices, and procedures to analyze and recommend improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements. I have completed formal education or training in office management principles, practices and procedures, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed and recommended improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have analyzed and recommended improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have analyzed and recommended improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted. 3 Which of the following describes your ability to perform the day-to-day operation of a lost-and-found program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for documenting all property turned in to the lost/found office. I have been responsible for maintaining an inventory on all items turned in to the lost/found office. I have been responsible for safeguarding and/or securing all valuable property. I have been responsible for returning lost items which may have involved notifying the owner via phone and returning lost items through the mail. I have been responsible for disposing of any property items not claimed in accordance with established procedures. I have been responsible for depositing cash received during performance of duties. I have developed and prepared staff handbooks regarding lost/found property procedures. I have assisted in developing and preparing staff handbooks regarding lost/found property procedures. I have identified problems with the lost and found system and made recommendations for improvement. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in maintaining property accountability and control by conducting an annual physical inventory, ensuring regulations are followed to safeguard assets/equipment and maintaining control of the data input into the automated centralized property management system? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in logging incoming documents, requests, or correspondence into an automated internal tracking system to ensure timely processing? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have limited experience in this area. I have a moderate amount of experience in this area, and consider myself fully competent in this area. I have significant experience in this area, and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive experience in this area, and have assisted/trained others. I would consider myself an expert. 6 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports or other documents? (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 7 Please choose the answer(s) that best reflect your experience providing customer service for users of one or more of the following office appliations/operating systems. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Unix Windows NT/2000/XP Mac OS X Microsoft Office Mac Office Citrix VPN Virus Protection Software None of the above. 8 Which of the following warehouse functions do you perform on a regular basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering Inventory/stock control Receiving/product inspection Distribution/delivery Food material handling None of the above 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing administrative tasks in support of an office or organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ensured compliance with budget/financial managment laws, regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have explained or provided guidance on administrative laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or other customers. I have exercised independent judgment in interpreting and adapting available guidelines in order to complete administrative assignments. I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration. I have interpreted and applied regulations dealing with procurement and contracts. I have approved purchase orders/documents ensuring adherence to policies and regulations. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have performed analyses of obligation and performance data to determine compliance with guidance. I have provided technical advice in administrative support areas to others. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have implemented operational, program, or project plans to meet objectives. I have coordinated and reviewed recruitment, selection, promotion, awards and training activities to assure compatibility with staffing plans, personnel ceillings, and funding levels. I have identified and tracked quantities of goods purchased. I have identified and tracked hours worked by employees. I have served as primary source of information to management on availability and cost of manpower resources. I have served as the liaison on personnel/human resources management matters. I have interpreted space policies and procedures in the management of space and facilites, providing oversight to management of organization's facilities as needed. I have provided oversight of the property system and annual inventory. I have fulfilled the requirements of NARA on file management and disposition. I have advised in matters of routine travel authorizations and vouchers using current travel software. I have administered the Federal travel card program for an office or organization. I have served as credit card approving official for an office or organization. None of the above 10 Which of the following describes your experience, training or development in oral communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional seminar such as Toastmasters Speech/public speaking course Debate club Teaching/Instructional skills Briefing/Oral presentation skills None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have had work experience applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 12 Identify the various types of oral presentations that you have given: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Formal presentations to clients or senior management officials Formal training for peers, mid level managers and/or clients Briefings/presentations of analytical findings/conclusions/recommendations for first and second level supervisors None of the above Grade: 07 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of office management principles, practices and the ability to analyze and recommend improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in office management principles, practices, and procedures to analyze and recommend improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements. I have completed formal education or training in office management principles, practices and procedures, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have analyzed and recommended improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have analyzed and recommended improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have analyzed and recommended improved flow of office procedures and reporting requirements as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted. 3 Which of the following describes your ability to perform the day-to-day operation of a lost-and-found program? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for documenting all property turned in to the lost/found office. I have been responsible for maintaining an inventory on all items turned in to the lost/found office. I have been responsible for safeguarding and/or securing all valuable property. I have been responsible for returning lost items which may have involved notifying the owner via phone and returning lost items through the mail. I have been responsible for disposing of any property items not claimed in accordance with established procedures. I have been responsible for depositing cash received during performance of duties. I have developed and prepared staff handbooks regarding lost/found property procedures. I have assisted in developing and preparing staff handbooks regarding lost/found property procedures. I have identified problems with the lost and found system and made recommendations for improvement. None of the above. 4 Which of the following procurement and/or contract services and/or functions have you provided? (Check all the apply) Answer to this question is required I have purchased or contracted for property, services, supplies, equipment or other items. I have developed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have developed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have NOT performed these job functions. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your experience in maintaining property accountability and control by conducting an annual physical inventory, ensuring regulations are followed to safeguard assets/equipment and maintaining control of the data input into the automated centralized property management system? Answer to this question is required This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in logging incoming documents, requests, or correspondence into an automated internal tracking system to ensure timely processing? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in this area. I have limited experience in this area. I have a moderate amount of experience in this area, and consider myself fully competent in this area. I have significant experience in this area, and consider it one of my strengths. I have extensive experience in this area, and have assisted/trained others. I would consider myself an expert. 7 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in drafting, writing, and editing correspondence, reports or other documents? (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have received post-high school instruction and/or training in written communication (e.g., college papers), but have not performed them on the job. I have composed non-technical correspondence (e.g., letters, memoranda). I have composed technical correspondence or reports (e.g., briefings, background papers, press releases, research results). I have prepared draft documents and/or routine correspondence such as responses for common requests or questions. I have reviewed outgoing correspondence for supervisor's signature, proper format, grammatical or typographical errors. I have made grammatical corrections of my own work in relation to the preparation of final documents (e.g., regular correspondence, internal and external memoranda, reports, etc.) I have made grammatical corrections to other people's work in relation to the preparation of final documents. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 8 Please choose the answer(s) that best reflect your experience providing customer service for users of one or more of the following office appliations/operating systems. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Unix Windows NT/2000/XP Mac OS X Microsoft Office Mac Office Citrix VPN Virus Protection Software None of the above. 9 Which of the following warehouse functions do you perform on a regular basis? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Ordering Inventory/stock control Receiving/product inspection Distribution/delivery Food material handling None of the above 10 Which of the following best describes your experience in collecting and analyzing&nbsp;statistical data using software such as Excel, Access, and other computer database systems?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in using these types of computer-based tools to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have experience using these computer-based tools but am not able to create programs to collect and analyze data. I have limited experience using these computer-based tools. I have never used any data collection and analyzing computer-based tools. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience providing administrative tasks in support of an office or organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ensured compliance with budget/financial managment laws, regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have explained or provided guidance on administrative laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or other customers. I have exercised independent judgment in interpreting and adapting available guidelines in order to complete administrative assignments. I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration. I have interpreted and applied regulations dealing with procurement and contracts. I have approved purchase orders/documents ensuring adherence to policies and regulations. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have performed analyses of obligation and performance data to determine compliance with guidance. I have provided technical advice in administrative support areas to others. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have implemented operational, program, or project plans to meet objectives. I have coordinated and reviewed recruitment, selection, promotion, awards and training activities to assure compatibility with staffing plans, personnel ceillings, and funding levels. I have identified and tracked quantities of goods purchased. I have identified and tracked hours worked by employees. I have served as primary source of information to management on availability and cost of manpower resources. I have served as the liaison on personnel/human resources management matters. I have interpreted space policies and procedures in the management of space and facilites, providing oversight to management of organization's facilities as needed. I have provided oversight of the property system and annual inventory. I have fulfilled the requirements of NARA on file management and disposition. I have advised in matters of routine travel authorizations and vouchers using current travel software. I have administered the Federal travel card program for an office or organization. I have served as credit card approving official for an office or organization. None of the above 12 Which of the following best describes your experience performing inventory analysis? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training performing this task but have not performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have experience performing inventory analysis as a regular part of my job, under close supervision. I have experience performing inventory analysis as a regular part of my job, without supervision. I have trained others to perform this task and provide advice and guidance to management on performing this task as regular part of my job. 13 Which of the following describes your experience, training or development in oral communication? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professional seminar such as Toastmasters Speech/public speaking course Debate club Teaching/Instructional skills Briefing/Oral presentation skills None of the above. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience and/or ability to communicate orally? Answer to this question is required I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to communicate with co-workers and superiors in order to receive and carry out instructions and directions. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the workplace. I have demonstrated the ability to exchange routine and basic communication with coworkers and superiors and make suggestions in order to accomplish job tasks. I have had work experience in applying basic communication skills in the conduct of work activities with internal and external customers, as well as co-workers and superiors. I have demonstrated the ability to receive inquiries and respond regarding non-technical or routine matters. I have had work experience in applying communication skills to both routine and non-routine matters. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized, but non-complex issues. I have had work experience applying communication skills to complex and non-routine issues. I have demonstrated the ability to make informative and persuasive communications in a business setting, including oral presentations on specialized and complex issues. I have typically maintained effective ongoing contacts and working relationships with personnel at various levels throughout the organization. None of the above. 15 Identify the various types of oral presentations that you have given: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Formal presentations to clients or senior management officials Formal training for peers, mid level managers and/or clients Briefings/presentations of analytical findings/conclusions/recommendations for first and second level supervisors None of the above Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.