Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have journey-level experience in the electrical occupational field? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the tasks you have performed when supervising others. Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for subordinates. Developed a safety plan that included safety procedures and personal protective equipment. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Made promotion decisions. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Recommended personnel actions. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. None of the above. 5 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed safe work practices or procedures with employees. Inspected work site for job hazards. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided instructions regarding work to be performed. Identified ways to improve employees' job performance. Developed work improvement plans. None of the above. 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment? Answer to this question is required I have performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently performed installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing electrical work. None of the above. 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who perform installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical electrician work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 8 Have you completed the installation of full wiring systems for commercial buildings independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 On which of the following equipment containing circuit-based components have you performed electrical work? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Fire alarm systems Cafeteria and kitchen equipment Light dimming systems in conference rooms Automatic door opening systems Variable speed drives and electric motor starters for air conditioning systems None of the above 10 Select the types of electrical equipment on which you have performed preventive maintenance. Answer to this question is required Transformers Breaker Panels Single Phase Motors Electrical Controllers Three Phase Motors Generators Circuit Breakers Household, Industrial and Shop Equipment Variable Frequency Drive None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interpreting electrical drawings? Answer to this question is required I completed training on interpreting electrical drawings (e.g., recognizing equipment symbols) but have not yet applied it on the job. I interpreted electrical drawings with the assistance/supervision of others. I independently interpreted electrical drawings to identify and locate electrical equipment. I recognized when electrical drawings were incorrect/incomplete and made the necessary adjustments when performing electrical work. None of the above. 12 Select the tasks that you performed to select, install, maintain and troubleshoot power distribution equipment systems. Answer to this question is required Selected, installed, and maintained high voltage protection and control devices. Calculated requirements for secondary service loads, fuses, and feeders. Selected, installed, tested, and maintained oil and dry type distribution transformers. Selected, laid out, tested, and maintained power distribution panels. Laid out, installed, tested, and maintained ground fault circuit interrupters. Laid out, installed, tested, and maintained power factor correction equipment. Installed low-voltage power distribution systems. Performed troubleshooting and maintenance of low voltage power distribution systems. Installed, performed troubleshooting and maintenance of direct current (DC) power distribution systems. Selected, installed, performed troubleshooting and maintenance of AC/DC protective devices. None of the above. 13 Do you have experience performing electrical work in confined spaces, such as man holes, crawl spaces, and ceilings? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 Select the hand tools you have used to perform electrical work. Answer to this question is required Wrenches (e.g., pipe wrench, torque wrench) Wire cutter/stripper Pliers (e.g., needle nose, channel lock) Side cutters Hack saw Tin snips Scratch awl Nut drivers Socket ratchet Tap and die set Pipe benders (manual) None of the above 15 Do you have experience diagnosing improper operations or malfunctions in electrical systems independently and with little supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 15.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. (Maximum 1,000 characters) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 16 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience trouble shooting electrical equipment? Answer to this question is required I have identified defective parts/equipment through visual observation or the use of test equipment. I have traced hard-to-locate equipment defects (e.g., component level malfunction). I have isolated the cause of malfunctions in electrical devices containing electronic components. None of the above. 17 Select the tasks you have performed to troubleshoot electrical circuits. Answer to this question is required Removed fixtures and replaced fixtures. Removed controls and replaced controls. Installed new outlets in existing circuits. Traced wiring in receptacle circuits. Troubleshooting fuses in safety switches and motor starters. Troubleshooting loss of power in building risers. Verifying transformers, cables, fuses and circuit breakers meet NEC. None of the above. 18 Which is your preferred shift? Answer to this question is required Monday - Friday 2:00 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. Sunday - Thursday 10:00 p.m. - 6:30 a.m. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.