Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The following questions will be used to help us determine your eligibility for this Criminal Investigator position. Please read each question carefully before selecting a response. 1 List your Date of Birth (MM/DD/YYYY) OR your Federal law enforcement series and dates of employment below. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 To apply for this position, applicants must be under the age of 37, OR preference-eligible veteran, OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. Please select one of the following responses: Answer to this question is required I am under 37 years of age. I am 37 years of age or older. I am 37 years or older, but I have prior Federal civilian law enforcement experience covered by Title 5 U.S.C. section 8336 such that, when the years of service is subtracted from my current age, I will be under 37 years of age. I am a preference-eligible veteran. 3 Are you eligible and available for assignment anywhere within the United States, its Territories, and Possessions? I understand that I will be required to sign a Georgraphic Mobility Agreement, attesting to my understanding that I can be relocated by my employer to another geographic locality. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 "This position requires the incumbent to work an average of two or more Law Enforcement Availability Pay (LEAP) hours per scheduled work day, which may include evenings, nights and weekends. The hours worked will vary depending on the nature of the assignment." Are you available to work an average of two or more LEAP hours on a daily basis? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 This position requires the incumbent to work various shifts (e.g., 8:15am-5pm), 12am-8am, 4pm-12am, in addition to 2 or more LEAP hours, on a daily basis. In short, the hours worked will vary depending on the nature of your assignment. Are you available to work various shifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am available for worldwide travel, including travel to countries where adverse OR dangerous conditions may be common. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical evaluation. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I have a valid US drivers license OR will be able to obtain a valid state motor vehicle operations license by the time I am appointed. Answer to this question is required True False 9 I understand that I must successfully undergo a rigorous training program, which includes fiireams qualification, physical readiness standards and tests, specialized driving test, as well as specialized law enforcement coursework, and that failure to pass any aspect of the training program is grounds for separation. Answer to this question is required Yes No Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 10 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 11 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Please indicate which of the following functions you have performed as part of your protective security work experience: Answer to this question is required Shift Agent Shift Leader Advance Team Member Personal Security Officer Agent-in-Charge and/or Tactical Commander None of the above 13 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 14 I have knowledge of the principles, concepts and methodologies of work in the colleciton, analysis, evaluation, interpretation, and dissemination of information in the following areas: Answer to this question is required Criminal Justice Intelligence Counterintelligence Counterterrorism Cyber Crimes Cultural / Geographic Studies Economics Political Science Psychology Physical Science Environment Law Sociology Science Military International Affairs None of the above 15 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established working relationships? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Supervisors Managers Members of the academic community Government organizations Private industry Law enforcement officials Technical experts Professional organizations Nongovernmental organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Law enforcement organizations Foreign government officials None of the above 16 With which of the following entities outside of your work organization have you developed successful working relationships? Answer to this question is required Agency employees Agency management officials Other Federal law enforcement agencies Other state and local law enforcement agencies Prosecutors General public None of the above 17 Identify all of the following types of teams on which you have participated: Answer to this question is required Multi-organizational Multi-disciplinary / cross-functional Multi-agency Within a work group None of the above 18 Select from the list below each of the investigative techniques you have successfully employed in the course of your official duties. Answer to this question is required Interviews / interrogations Mail cover Technical surveillance Foot surveillance Record checks Checks of computerized databases Comparison of known photographs of a subject to questioned photographs of a subject Comparison of known documents to questioned documents Link analysis program to establish relationships and graphic representations of those relationships Sworn statements Properly used Miranda, Garrity, or Kalkines warnings Arrest warrants Search warrants Vehicle surveillance Confidential informants Undercover operations Subpoenas None of the above 19 Select the choices that describe investigative techniques which you have used in performing work assignments: Answer to this question is required Following leads Researching records Preparing reports Contacting or interviewing to obtain information Searching for physical or documentary evidence or clues Using evidence to substantiate findings or conclusions Examining records to detect links in a chain of evidence or information None of the above 20 With which of the following business and management functions do you have direct work experience? Answer to this question is required Administrative Budgeting / finance Communications Government Relations Information Services Inspection Legal Media Relations Purchasing Criminal Justice Administration E-Commerce Management Finance International Business Information Technology Management Public Management Human Resource Management General Management Conflict and Negotiation Management Fraud Management Emergency Planning and/or Management? Threat Assessment Logistics Management None of the Above 21 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior agency officials Managers Colleagues Subordinates Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Civic groups Universities None of the above 22 Choose all examples that match your experience preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have prepared issue papers and/or briefings for presentation to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 23 What experience do you have using manual or software systems to analyze data in an investigation? Answer to this question is required I have training but have not applied my knowledge. I have employed manual means to chart organizations. I have used link analysis software to detect and display organizational relationships in criminal investigations. I have manually constructed timelines. I have used software to construct timelines. I have used software for data mining. I have searched criminal databases. I have used software to identify outstanding warrants. I have used software to identify terrorists. I have used software for statistical reporting. I have used software to organize and analyze financial information. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.