Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: &nbsp;GS-12: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (or will receive one by August 1, 2023), and/or 1 year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. This level of experience in the field is demonstrated by experience such as: (1) candidate has performed research used in publications in peer-reviewed journals (even if candidate is not an author of a peer-reviewed journal publication) focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation and/or &nbsp; (2) candidate has assisted senior economists in the teaching of economics courses focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation &nbsp; and/or (3) candidate has contributed to agency policymaking involving microeconomics analysis focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation. 1 I meet the qualification requirements as described above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 13 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: &nbsp;GS-13: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. This level of experience in the&nbsp; field is demonstrated by experience such as: (1) candidate has at least one credited publication in a peer-reviewed journal or has made significant contributions to one or more publications in peer-reviewed journals focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation and/or (2) candidate has significantly assisted senior economists in the teaching of courses in microeconomics or the relevant related fields mentioned above (specifically applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation), and/or (3) candidate has made significant contributions to agency policymaking involving microeconomics analysis focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation. 1 I meet the qualification requirements as described above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 14 REMINDER! Your answers will be verified against information provided in your on-line resume. Be sure your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing experience and education relevant to this position. If you exaggerate or falsify your experience and/or education, you may be removed from consideration. You should make a fair and accurate assessment of your qualifications. In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: &nbsp;GS-14: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. This level of experience in the&nbsp; field&nbsp; is demonstrated by experience such as: 1) candidate has at least two credited publications in peer-reviewed journals or has made significant contributions to two or more publications in peer-reviewed journals focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation and/or (2) candidate supervised research or taught students in advanced undergrad and/or graduate courses in microeconomics or other relevant fields mentioned above (specifically applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation) and/or (3) candidate has played a lead role in analysis used in agency policymaking involving microeconomics analysis focused on applied microeconomics, industrial organization, or the economics of telecommunications or other network industries, including but not limited to industry-relevant technological innovation. 1 I meet the qualification requirements as described above. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Economist positions in the Federal government. Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4 year course of study leading to a degree in economics that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus. I have a combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in economics as described in the response above plus appropriate experience or additional education. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).