Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Federal Energy Regulatory Commission About Careers Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience. Answer to this question is required I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described below. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described below. Specialized Experience is defined as experience in leading teams and/or conducting analysis regarding complex issues related to the regulation of the electric utility markets and tariffs (e.g. energy and capacity markets, generator interconnection proceedings, transmission planning and cost allocation issues, major rulemakings, and cost of service issues). 2 In reference to the question above, please indicate the time frame and employer(s) in your resume that supports your answer(e.g. 12/10/90 - 2/4/93 Department of Energy). Enter NA if not applicable. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, SF-50, ICTAP documentation, may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 2 Are you currently an employee of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in the competitive service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES Appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 When evaluating a novel pricing proposal from an organized market, such as a Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) or and Independent System Operator (ISO), what is the most productive analytical path to pursue in determining whether it will result in just and reasonable rates? Answer to this question is required Evaluate its impact on overall market efficiency and whether it aligns with Commission policy Evaluate whether the proposal will raise or lower market prices. Evaluate whether it will support policy goals that you believe are most important. Defer to stakeholder consensus. 5 A RTO has submitted a proposal for its Transmission Access Charge, the set of rates that market participants will be charged for transmission in the market. &nbsp;What is the best initial question to ask in evaluating whether the proposal is just and reasonable under the Federal Power Act? Answer to this question is required “Will this encourage the development of nuclear generation and other important technologies?” “Is the level of rates charged for transmission similar to other ISOs and RTOs?” ”Does this proposal allocate costs based on who benefits from the transmission?” “Were the constituent load serving entities supportive of the proposal?” 6 An investor-owned utility has made a filing with the Commission containing a novel proposal to revise its interconnection procedures. &nbsp;Which is the most appropriate analytical framework to use in evaluating the filing? Answer to this question is required Evaluate the problem the utility is attempting to solve and determine whether the utility’s proposal is the most efficient way to resolve the problem. Evaluate the proposal against Commission rulemakings on interconnection procedures as well as the provisions of the Federal Power Act (FPA). If the proposal is consistent with or superior to the provisions in the relevant Commission rulemakings and results in just and reasonable rates under the FPA, it should generally be accepted. Evaluate the parties in favor of and opposing the proposal. If there is broad agreement, the proposal should generally be accepted. If the proposal raises a number of objections, it should generally be rejected. Evaluate the proposal against the Commission’s filing requirements. If it comports with the filing requirements, it should be accepted for filing. 7 Which factor is most critical when evaluating whether to approve market-based rate (MBR) authority? Answer to this question is required Company profitability. Is the company making too much money currently? Market power and competition levels. Is the company seeking MBR authority in an area with Commission approved market power mitigation? Is the company a critical supplier in the area such that it can exert market power? Historical rate trends. Have rates been going up recently in the area? Input from commenters/protestors. Has the filing been contested? 8 Which is the most important factor in evaluating cost-based rates? Answer to this question is required Whether the filed rate allows the utility to recover prudently-incurred costs that are used and useful in serving customers and whether the rates allocate the recovery of those costs to those that benefit from the costs. Whether the rates are structured in a way to put the lowest burden possible on residential customers. Whether the rates are consistent with the level of rates charged by other utilities. Whether the rates result in round numbers so that customers can easily calculate their overall rate when adding up services. 9 Which of the following is the most true statement about congestion costs in an organized market with locational marginal pricing? Answer to this question is required When transmission is constrained, the system operator sets a toll on the most constrained paths. Transmission owners have fixed Commission-approved congestion costs for each of their lines published in their Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS). This is a trick question. Locational marginal pricing was developed precisely to avoid complications involving congestion costs. Congestion costs are the result of price separation between locations. During certain hours, the marginal megawatt of electricity becomes more expensive to provide as a result of insufficient transmission capacity, and this results in a higher locational marginal price in the constrained area than the system marginal energy cost. 10 When presenting analysis to Commissioners&rsquo; staff, what is most effective? Answer to this question is required Provide as much technical detail as you can in the time allotted. Focus on the back and forth between various stakeholders. Deliver a balanced presentation that engages with the strongest arguments on each side of any analytical question. To the extent that the team has a recommendation, show that the recommendation can survive rigorous scrutiny. Deliver a convincing argument in support of the position the team has adopted. 11 In developing a training for less experienced Commission staff, what is the best approach? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required It is best not to be too prepared. Get everyone in a room and ask them what they want to know about the topic. If people have only a few questions, great! More time for lunch. Put together an engaging slide deck with visual aids that allows you to present the information in a conversational style. Make sure you’re not simply reading from Power Point slides or from a prepared text. The Socratic method is often effective. Start by asking junior staff what they think electricity is and go from there. If you write everything down beforehand, things will not go awry. Prepare a detailed script and delivery it effectively. 12 You have been asked to coordinate with the Office of General Counsel (OGC) on a new policy for addressing waiver requests, which of the following is the most appropriate approach? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Analyze the question and figure out the correct answer. If your OGC counterpart disagrees, that is a sign they have not thought clearly enough about the question. Explain in exacting detail why they are wrong. Defer to OGC unless they propose something that your leadership has ruled out, because waivers are generally an OGC area of responsibility. Discuss the problem with your OGC counterpart, if there is a disagreement, present both sides to senior staff and ask them to decide between the two options. Analyze the question so that you can have a productive conversation with your OGC counterpart. Listen carefully to their concerns and opinions and attempt to arrive at consensus that works for both offices. 13 When leading a multidisciplinary team, what is the most important consideration? Answer to this question is required The team needs to be happy and to work well together. Make sure to bring snacks to meetings and get to know your co-workers. As team lead you need to foster an environment that invites civil and friendly collaboration while ensuring that deadlines are met. As team lead, you are the most knowledgeable and are expected to do the most work. Just try to do everything yourself and take the burden off everyone else. Efficient teaming means dividing up tasks and delegating. Give everyone a piece of the assignment and have them do their part independently with minimal time-wasting meetings. 14 You have been assigned as a coach to a filing where a junior analyst struggles with complex tariff analysis. Ideally, what is the best approach? Answer to this question is required Have your supervisor reassign the work. Complete the work yourself. Provide guidance so that they can do the work themselves. Gently suggest that a career in electric power regulation may not be for them. 15 At a meeting of senior staff discussing an item where you are a team lead, there is strenuous disagreement among senior staff on how to proceed. &nbsp;What is the best approach? Answer to this question is required Listen carefully to what your office director says, support their point of view, and insinuate that other members of senior staff may not know what they are talking about. Provide support for the discussion with knowledgeable answers to questions asked. Be balanced in your answers, making sure to take seriously the arguments on both sides of the dispute. Advocate for your own point of view like a good trial attorney. After all, if your point of view prevails, you win the meeting. Be as quiet as possible and only speak when spoken to. View Vacancy Details Mission: Reliable, Efficient and Sustainable Energy for Customers Assist consumers in obtaining reliable, efficient and sustainable energy services at a reasonable cost through appropriate regulatory and market means. Privacy Policy Disclaimers This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).