Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best reflects your training and/or experience in applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques. I have no experience, formal training, or education in this area. 5 With which of the following program management techniques do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones Results Based Management None of the above 6 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in managing and coordinating programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices and procedures. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices and procedures. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of education, training and/or experience in applying knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents to assess programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed this task on a regular basis as part of the job. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 9 I have performed the following leadership functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines. Developing, updating, and executing portions of operating budgets. Planning work tasks and responsibilities to be assigned to employees. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results. Reporting progress to senior management. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects. None of the above. 10 Which of the following BEST describes your knowledge of contract administration policy and procedures sufficient to monitor contractor performance? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not performed it on the job. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, usually under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task independently on the job and other workers frequently consult me for technical expertise, guidance, or training in performing this task. 11 Which of the following have you done that demonstrate your ability to think strategically? Answer to this question is required Wrote strategic planning documents Analyzed financial statements Analyzed working capital funds Developed balance scorecards Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan Project planning Budget planning Performance measurements Workforce planning None of the above 12 Select the responses that describe your experience in the following areas of contract/procurement/acquisitions. Answer to this question is required Developed contract Statements of Work (SOW) Prepared contract Statements of Objectives (SOO). Prepared contract Justifications. Prepared contract Approvals. Prepared contract renewals and extensions. None of the above. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience analyzing statements of work and specifications for adequacy and recommending revisions? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 14 Which of the following BEST describes your experience negotiating complex service contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 15 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience in modifying contracts? Answer to this question is required I have instructed or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have received education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training or experience performing this task. 16 Select the one response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity. Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, state and local law enforcement officials, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above 17 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 18 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Negotiations None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.