Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 [14533] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one-year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal government or equivalent as stated in the announcement. I do not meet the one-year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 8.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 8.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 9 Did you attach a writing sample based on the following requirements? Writing Sample Requirements Given the primary duties of this position,&nbsp;you are required to provide with your application TWO (2) samples of a product or portion of a product that you have either authored or&nbsp; substantially&nbsp; revised or edited.&nbsp; Examples may include but are not limited to government reports, testimonies, articles or recent publications, congressional or executive correspondence, and speeches. Your sample will be evaluated on the following criteria: Clear, concise, and convincing presentation of complex information Appropriate diction, tone, and balance Logical organization and flow Correct and/or consistent use of spelling, grammar, punctuation, and style Please submit&nbsp; TWO (2) &nbsp;writin g &nbsp;samples that are at least 5 and no more than 30 pages long. Samples outside of this page range&nbsp;will not be considered. &nbsp; Sample at a minimum should demonstrate your ability to produce a high level of readability.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).