Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 Management Analysts serve as a point of contact with Executive Staff in the Central and Regional Offices to include briefing the Assistant Director, Program Review Division, or other Executive Staff prior to each Executive Staff meeting. They brief staff members and other governmental/non-governmental agencies in matters of concern to the External Auditing Branch and Program Review Division.&nbsp; They educate/train staff on pilot initiatives and open decisions, and prepares Executive staff to include database information, liaison with outside audit authorities&nbsp;and provide guidance and assistance to field locations preparing for external audits. They resolve problems and presents oral briefings of results of audits. Contacts&nbsp;include institution staff, department heads, executive level staff, Regional and Central office administrators and individuals from other governmental agencies. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given briefings to upper management on sensitive issues; and/or as a chairperson, I have guided a workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have chaired labor/management negotiations; and/or I have given press conferences; and/or I have coordinated tours and open houses; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings; and/or I have handled a difficult situation using tact and diplomacy; and/or I have successfully resolved complex conflicts among supervisors, co-workers and/or peers; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process as a mediator. I have instructed a class using established curriculum or lesson plans; and/or I have prepared and presented a speech during orientation of new employees, annual training, annual meeting, or equivalent; and/or I have presented operational review findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings. I have answered questions from the field or regional staff or equivalent; and/or I have responded to complaints of staff and others; and/or I have participated on a Community Relations Board; and/or I have served as alternate Public Information Officer for the organization; and/or I have assisted senior workers in conducting formal training programs and informal briefing sessions; and/or I have provided guidance on preparing external audits. None of the above. 5 Management Analysts prepare, edit, and route Executive Staff meeting minutes, which may include sensitive data.&nbsp;They also develop short and long-term goals and objectives that support the mission of the External Auditing Branch.&nbsp;&nbsp;Management Analysts coordinate special projects assigned by the immediate supervisor, as well as by other appropriate supervisory levels.&nbsp;They also prepare correspondence to BOP staff at various levels, as well as to members of Congress, governmental and non-governmental agencies, and to the public and/or oversees the preparation of reports, summaries, position papers and memorandums on evaluations of agency programs and operations.&nbsp; Generally, tentative findings are derived independently but are reviewed for conformance to policy, adequacy of support for any suggestions or recommendations made, and effectiveness of presentation.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written an article published in a correctional publication or professional journal; and/or I have prepared documentation to be used in an administrative court hearing; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquires from outside agencies. I have prepared technical reports for supervisor from historical data; and/or I have responded to a congressional inquiry regarding constituent concern; and/or I have prepared a statement on an institutional issue for media release; and/or I have developed a training presentation with lesson plans; and/or I have developed and updated policies for implementing the responsibilities of the branch and division or equivalent. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements and/or technical guidelines; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. None of the above. 6 Management Analysts must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of the Bureau of Prisons in order to effectively carry out primary responsibilities of directing and evaluating operating programs in correctional institutions and the Central Office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have served on correctional institution committees to formulate institution policy; and/or I have identified violations of the law or regulations made by individuals in a prison facility and took appropriate corrective action; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessment/staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have chaired Program or Operational Reviews; and/or I have served as an institution ACA accreditation manager or PREA compliance manager. I have facilitated training for visual searches of inmate work or living areas; and/or I have noticed atypical behavior in an inmate and taken appropriate corrective action; and/or I have made recommendations to improve standard correctional practices or operating procedures; and/or I have directed shakedowns of inmates. I have participated in a Program or Operational review; and/or I have entered and retrieved information from a personal computer regarding correctional program issues, personnel, and/or security; and/or I have conducted individual or group counseling of inmates; and/or I have served as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have served as an American Correctional Association (ACA) accreditation team member and/or Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) audit participant. None of the above. 7 Management Analyst must analyze reports, surveys, data and complex statistical problems; determine inconsistencies; and inform management of issues needing attention.&nbsp;Management Analyst analyze program review findings and data from Institution Character Profiles, prison social climate surveys, along with other performance measures contained in Key Indicators, results from conferences and reports as well as any other available and pertinent information in such a way as to provide useful management information. &nbsp;They consult with the Office of Research and Evaluation to determine the types of data and how it will be displayed in Key Indicators and for the Executive Staff during their meetings.&nbsp;&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained data from national data/information sources to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have determined workforce characteristics through an analysis of statistics. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have identified flaws in program areas, deficiencies in policy and operations issuances and recommending solutions to critical problems; and/or I have evaluated the external agency audits at the national level for effectiveness and to ensure it meets the goals for the bureau or equivalent; and/or I have conducted special reviews and surveys, making technical assistance visits to gather data and follow up on possible program area. I have analyzed subordinate employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have used SENTRY or other available automated system to pull statistical data to include in a proposal for additional funding; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed results of program review data and developed trend or deficiency reports. None of the above. 8 Management Analysts must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with upper management, Department of Justice, and other Federal, State and local entities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in public relations activities such as open house for outside groups and tours; and/or I have served as member of a committee or task force addressing issues affecting the organization or agency; and/or I have served on a task force to develop and modify local programs. I have coordinated facility inspections; and/or I have conducted a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have participated in departmental meeting and presented information; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have identified/recognized possible conflict and took corrective action before it escalated I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to them escalating to a higher level; and/or I have participated on a work group within the division which developed internal policy; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).