Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate which of the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic/Tactical Planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units/organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. 2 Please identify the following with which you have knowledge or experience. Answer to this question is required Appropriations Law Prompt Payment Act Debt Collection Act (DCIA) Foreign Affairs Manual OMB Circulars Federal Travel Regulations Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) Internal controls Financial oversight / compliance Due diligence reviews None of the above 3 I have experience in extracting, reviewing, and analyzing the following types of quantitative information: Answer to this question is required Monthly budget expense statements Budget requests Cost estimates None of the above 4 Which of the following financial management techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Internal control procedures Standard operating procedures Application and compliance with policies and guidance Disclosure reporting Executive summary Reconciliations Audits Manual disbursing Asset management inventories Respond to audit findings Design, develop, and prepare financial reports None of the above 5 Please select the response that best describes your level of experience in applying financial management theories and principles. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training applying financial management theories and principles. I have completed formal education or training in financial management theories and principles, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied financial management theories and principles on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied financial management theories and principles as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying financial management theories and principles has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying financial management theories and principles and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 I have performed the following budgetary duties in developing/managing a project: (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed a budget Performed future cash/cost flow analysis Determined priorities for release of funds Maintained accurate record of project finance Identified methods for reducing overall project cost Ensured all financial obligations were met and funds were being used responsibly None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 8 Select the one response that best describes your personal qualities as a supervisor / manager. Answer to this question is required I portray objectivity and fairness in judging people on their ability, and situations on the facts and circumstances. I have the capacity to adjust to change, work pressures or difficult situations without undue stress. I have the willingness to consider new ideas or divergent points of view. I have the capacity to "see the job through". None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.