Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to provide security incident response, investigation, handling and management activities.** Supported the Security Operations Center&rsquo;s mission of full incident life-cycle management by performing and coordinating activities designed to ensure, protect, and restore IT systems, services, and capabilities, and tracking events and incidents through remediation. Investigated, triaged, analyzed, and responded to security events and incidents to identify scope, urgency, and impact of threats to the environment. Performed monitoring of security tools and analysis of log files and digital evidence in support of incident handling activities and provides expert analytic investigative support of large scale and complex security incidents. Provided expert level guidance to enterprise-wide technical teams regarding the remediation and mitigation of security incidents. Answer to this question is required Led teams as SENIOR-LEVEL CYBER-SECURITY ANALYST and operational lead in the areas of incident response, investigation, handling and management for an agency or company of at least 1000 endpoints. Performed duties of a SENIOR-LEVEL CYBER-SECURITY ANALYST in the areas incident response, investigation, handling and management for an agency or company of at least 1000 endpoints. Performed duties of a CYBER-SECURITY ANALYST in the areas of incident response, investigation, handling and management for an agency or company of at least 1000 endpoints. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of computer network defense and cyber threat hunting.** Served as a representative and subject matter expert on cyber threats and countermeasures. In doing so, 1) utilized a wide variety of computer network defense and hunting tools, including intrusion detection/prevention systems, next-generation firewalls, traditional firewalls, anti-virus, endpoint detection/response, network deep packet inspection, security event and incident management (SEIM) solutions, endpoint forensics and malware dynamic analysis; 2) performed the analysis of cyber threat intelligence reporting to identify indicators of compromise (IOCs) and adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) and develops custom signatures, alerting criteria and threat hunting hypotheses; and 3) performed threat hunting activities by proactively and iteratively searching through network and endpoint data to detect and isolate advanced threats that evade existing security solutions. Answer to this question is required Led teams as SENIOR-LEVEL CYBER-SECURITY ANALYST or OPERATIONAL LEAD in the area of computer network defense or cyber threat hunting for an agency or company of at least 1000 endpoints and performing ALL of the above activities. Performed duties of a SENIOR-LEVEL CYBER-SECURITY ANALYST in the area of computer network defense or cyber threat hunting for an agency or company of at least 1000 endpoints and performing TWO (2) of the above activities. Performed duties of a CYBER-SECURITY ANALYST in the area of computer network defense or cyber threat hunting for an agency or company of at least 1000 endpoints and performing ONE (1) of the above activities. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to perform IT research and analysis. Conducted complex research an analysis of cyber operations capabilities and trends as it relates to computer network defense and security operations. Researched cyber threat vectors and adversary tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) and develops and maintains a systematic approach to analyzing and utilizing collected data to maintain continual operational awareness of current and emerging threats. Participated as a representative in technical conferences and meetings with other IT personnel within the Library of Congress and/or components of private organizations or other government agencies. Reviewed and evaluated security incident response policies and identifies the need for change based on new security technologies or threats. Tested and implemented new policies and institutes measures and repeatable processes to ensure awareness and compliance. Answer to this question is required Served as a SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT and provided expert research and analysis researching issues and problems related to large complex IT SYSTEMS OR PROGRAMS for AGENCY/BUSINESS-WIDE IT PROGRAMS. Conducted EXPERT level research and analysis reaching solutions to issues and problems related to IT SYSTEMS OR PROGRAMS for AGENCY/BUSINESS-WIDE IT PROGRAMS. Conducted EXPERT level research and analysis reaching solutions to issues and problems related to IT SYSTEMS OR PROGRAMS associated with ONE OR MORE BUSINESS UNITS totaling approximately 500 individuals. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to apply project management methodologies and techniques to manage complex IT projects. Planed and developed long-range objectives and milestones for IT projects that involve substantive mission-oriented programs, such as projects implementing enterprise-level applications and/or changes to IT infrastructure to meet modified business processes. Defined project scope, requirements and deliverables and manages IT projects with high complexity or risk. Developed and implements project management procedures, tools, templates, activities, and infrastructure. Utilized communication skills, both orally and in writing, sufficient to present complex technical information to individuals to facilitate constructive discussion and to obtain consensus or agreement. Reviewed project management plans, designs, test plans and implementation plans for security operations projects. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated expert knowledge and utilization of ALL of the following methods and techniques: cost and schedule development, resource management, work breakdown structure (WBS), quality control, configuration control, system life cycle management, and scope management to manage complex IT projects affecting the entire ORGANIZATION. Utilized ALL of the following methods and techniques: cost and schedule development, resource management, work breakdown structure (WBS), quality control, configuration control, system life cycle management, and scope management to manage complex IT projects affecting the entire ORGANIZATION. Utilized THREE (3) to FIVE (5) of the following methods and techniques: cost and schedule development, resource management, work breakdown structure (WBS), quality control, configuration control, system life cycle management, and scope management to manage complex IT projects affecting an entire BUSINESS UNIT. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).