Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following statements, select the task(s) that you have performed as it relates to labor / employee relations activities: Answer to this question is required Ensure the effective delivery of employee relations activities, including adverse actions, employee grievances hearings, reprimands, involuntary separations, and disciplinary actions. Ensure that proper research is conducted to interpret material and documentation that supports the position and policies of the agency. Provides information and prepares comprehensive recommendations to ensure the development and implementation of the employee and labor relations program. Ensure that all necessary Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) position statements and filings, fitness for duty requests, briefs, advisory opinions, and employee communications are well written and cogent. Utilize a high degree of expertise and judgment in assessing situations, anticipating issues, identifying and exploring alternatives, outlining opinions, and resolving problems. Conduct workshops for senior managers, supervisors and employees on the collective bargaining agreements, progressive discipline and other aspects of labor-management relations. Proactively identifies training needs and acts to address them. Ensure the effective delivery of employee relations activities, including adverse actions, employee grievances hearings, reprimands, involuntary separations, disciplinary actions and fitness for duty examinations. Develop and maintain effective working relationships with union officials to ensure the timely and expeditious resolution of grievances and collective bargaining agreement issues. Provide opinions and guidance on the appropriate interpretation of collective bargaining unit agreements. Keep abreast of civil rights, discrimination, Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), arbitration and labor law decisions. Develops department strategy across multiple programs and clear, specific, and ambitious performance measures related to priorities; coordinates and directs the work of staff based on volume, priorities, and strategic context. Gather and analyze data for internal and external reporting; evaluates, on quantitative and qualitative basis, effectiveness of programs and special projects towards meeting established goals and objectives. Keep informed about innovations, developments in policy, and research and advises senior management on proposed legislation, policies, and procedures affecting the department and projects assigned. Deal effectively with personnel and operating officials at all levels in the gathering of factual and opinion data and in the discussion of significant issues. Explain both administrative and union grievance rights to employees and managers. Explain all requirements and options on appeal process to employees. Research labor laws and regulations and data in order to recommend solutions to problems. Provide guidance, consultation, and staff assistance to management on labor relation issues. None of the above. 2 I have applied knowledge of employee relations principles, practices, laws, rules and regulations pertaining to conduct. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience advising managers about appropriate disciplinary or other corrective techniques that are responsive to a range of conduct problems. I have experience explaining rules and procedures to employees and help them understand their rights and obligations. I have experience resolving disputed facts, including those which require credibility determinations. I have experience in conducting extensive probing and analysis to identify obscure or underlying causes of conduct. None of the above 3 In which of the areas that follow have you provided advisory services on employee relations matters? Answer to this question is required Adverse actions Performance Management Conduct Performance based reduction in grade or removal Discipline Benefits Work / Life programs and services None of the above 4 Which of the following have you been fully responsible for to use analytical methods and techniques to resolve human resource management problems? Answer to this question is required Identifying broad problem areas through situational and survey analysis which, due to organizational factors or supervisory-employee practices, contribute to unatisfactory and improper performance and conduct. Recommending corrections and improvements in identified problem areas and assisting in implementation of solutions. Exploring alternatives and developing constructive and coordinated solutions to complex and sensitive organizational problems. Ensuring that solutions are properly integrated with related human resource programs and the operating needs of the agency. None of the above. 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 6 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience designing and implementing human resources (HR) initiatives in the employee relations and labor relations areas: Answer to this question is required I have designed policies and strategies to strengthen the culture of accountability to support overall agency mission accomplishments. I have designed or selected survey instruments to improve the quality and delivery of HR services. I have developed program guides to continuously improve the quality of HR services. I have conducted fact-finding interviews and extensive research to gather useful feedback and collect comprehensive data to assess HR processes (performance improvement, leadership development, etc). I have analyzed survey results and interview findings to frame initial analysis and build on the data and lessons learned for a variety of HR initiatives (i.e. disciplinary action, performance management, learning and knowledge management, and succession planning). I have summarized findings of a study to improve and monitor trends to determine if targeted goals are on track to meet mission objectives. I have developed recommendations and options to ensure that maximum program advantage is gained and linked to strategic goals. I have led a study team, and have been accountable for delivery of a product. I have prepared final study reports. I have developed and carried out the implementation of approved recommendations. I have participated as a study / review team member. I have led a study team and have been accountable for delivering a product. I have developed programs and policies and provided technical assistance to managers, employees, or Human Resources specialist on Alternative Work Schedules. I have monitored, analyzed, and evaluated the effectiveness of training plans, programs, studies, methods and results in terms of fulfilling an organizations overall and special training needs. None of the above. 7 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have facilitated an open exchange of ideas. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units. I have approached each problem / situation with a clear perception of organizational and political reality. I have used contacts to build and strengthen internal support bases. I have developed and enhanced alliances with external groups. I have engaged in cross-functional activities. I have found common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs, feelings, and capabilities of different people in different situations. I ensure that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have the authority to speak on behalf of my organization in making decisions in one or more program areas. None of the above. 8 From the following list, please identify any activities with which you have experience: Answer to this question is required I have participated as a member of a team on the development of training material and conducting training courses. I have lead a team developing training material and conducting training courses. I have coordinated with others on the development of training material. I have co-led a team developing training material and conducting training courses. I have no education, training or experience performing this task. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.