Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the field of artist prints, posters, and other popular graphic arts. ** Demonstrated knowledge of artist prints, posters, and other popular graphic arts, including the literature in books and periodicals and electronic resource databases. Answer to this question is required Applied thorough knowledge of artist prints, posters, and other popular graphic arts working with library collections of more than 100,000 original visual materials, books, and periodicals. Applied thorough knowledge of artist prints, posters, and other popular graphic arts working with library collections of 1,000 items to 99,999 original visual materials, books, and periodicals. Applied knowledge and/or collegiate level coursework pertaining to artist prints, posters, and other popular graphic arts for library collections of books, periodicals, and original visual materials. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to provide research and reference services. ** Provided research and reference guidance based on in person or written requests to advise and orient patrons inside and outside the organization on the use and technical aspects of the visual material collections. This includes performing the following duties: 1) conducting reference interviews and answering a range of reference questions; 2) formulating search strategies; 3) executing search strategies using integrated library systems; and 4) making appropriate referrals to related library collections and repositories. Answer to this question is required Independently or with minimal supervision, executed ALL of the duties listed above. Independently or with minimal supervision, executed THREE (3) of the duties listed above. Independently or with minimal supervision, executed TWO (2) of the duties listed above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of library principles, concepts, and techniques. Applied professional knowledge of library principles, concepts, and techniques to manage library functions including: 1) collection development (acquisitions); 2) preservation; 3) digitization; 4) processing and cataloging; and 5) public program activities in the field of artist prints, posters, and other popular graphic arts. Answer to this question is required Applied professional knowledge of library principles, concepts and techniques to carry out and manage library functions and support researchers. Performed ALL of the above tasks in a professional library or archival environment. Applied professional knowledge of library principles, concepts and techniques to carry out and manage library functions and support researchers. Performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks in a professional library or archival environment. Used professional knowledge of library principles, concepts and techniques to carry out and manage library functions and support researchers. Performed TWO (2) of the above tasks, e.g., through collegiate or graduate level coursework in professional librarianship. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized work products related to artist prints, posters, or other popular graphic arts. Experience includes writing the following: 1) articles or blogs; 2) formal correspondence; 3) research guides for a variety of audiences; and 4) public presentations. Answer to this question is required As a principal author or co-author, wrote or contributed to writing ALL of the above documents. As a principal author or co-author, wrote or contributed to writing THREE (3) of the above documents. As a co-author or collaboration group, wrote or contributed to writing TWO (2) of the above documents. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to analyze and solve problems related to visual and documentary materials in graphic art collections. Provided appropriate strategies to analyze and solve problems related to visual and documentary materials in graphic art collections. Functions performed include: 1) collection development (acquisitions); 2) preservation; 3) reference and research services; 4) exhibit preparation; and 5) publishing activities. Answer to this question is required Took a lead role in developing strategies to analyze and solve problems related to visual materials in graphic art collections by performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the functions listed above, including 1) and 3). Took a lead role in developing strategies to analyze and solve problems related to visual materials in graphic art collections by performing THREE (3) of the functions listed above. Developed strategies to analyze and solve problems related to visual materials in graphic art collections by performing AT LEAST TWO (2) of the functions listed above. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).