Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others, to include informal relationships such as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for, or in collaboration with, subordinates. Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff. Interviewed job applicants for hire. Made hiring or promotion recommendations or decisions. Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests. Tracked leave usage. Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates. Resolved informal complaints and grievances. Recommended or implemented disciplinary actions. None of the above. 3 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward accomplishment of organizational goals. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have limited experience, gained primarily as a team leader or acting supervisor, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of specific goals/objectives assigned to the team. I have extensive experience, gained as a supervisor or manager, in inspiring, motivating, and/or guiding others toward the accomplishment of goals by monitoring their work and providing guidance, training, and/or direction as needed. 4 Select the types of teams you have led to accomplish team goals and assignments. Answer to this question is required Multi-discipline teams Teams composed of individuals with varying levels of skill Multi-level teams (e.g., subordinates, peers, and supervisors) Multi-organizational teams None of the above 5 Do you have experience developing and/or assisting in the development and implementation of strategic plans, programs and policies to meet the operational objectives of a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list&nbsp;the organization at which you worked, the title/role you held when you gained this experience, and a brief description of the tasks you performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 3000 characters. No 6 Do you have experience assessing operations and/or directing reviews of specialized programs, including administrative functions, facilities and support services, systems, resources, policies and procedures to ensure organizational effectiveness? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Select&nbsp;the proficiency levels that describe your ability to bring about strategic change to meet organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Designed approaches and procedures to develop a strategic operations plan supporting key agency goals and objectives. Established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. Conducted a review of the agency's core mission and gathered information from relevant sources to support development of a strategic plan. Implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of work unit goals. None of the above 8 Which of the following analytical activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Performed qualitative or quantitative analysis based on a prescribed methodology (e.g. running standardized reports). Designed research and evaluation tool(s) (e.g. development of an employee survey, data collection from an existing system, development of focus group questions, etc.). Developed measurement standards or metrics for an audit/evaluation. Described findings from a study/audit/evaluation that you conducted. Developed recommendations as a result of findings you discovered. Reviewed an audit/evaluation/study report for completeness, accuracy, fairness, and conformity to applicable standards. None of the above. 9 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Discerning underlying assumptions Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Validating support for arguments and audit/evaluation findings and recommendations None of the above 10 Select all responses from the list below that reflect the interpersonal skills you have used to foster cooperation, convey information, or resolve conflicts. Answer to this question is required Explained findings or recommendations to upper-level managers. Planned meetings with external individuals, industry groups, and/or organizations. Informed colleagues or senior management of events that may impact ongoing work. Collaborated with internal or external representatives to achieve mutual goals. None of the above. 11 Do you have experience interacting and briefing senior executives and/or other high-level decision makers on vital program issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select the statements that describe your presentation/communication experience with Congress, congressional staff or the public? Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above. 13 Which types of technical or management reports have you written? Answer to this question is required Management/operations reports Financial reports Data justification reports (non-financial) Performance accountability reports Data interpretation/research reports (other than for performance accountability) None of the above 14 For which audiences have you written professional documents (e.g., reports, white papers)? Answer to this question is required Peers Supervisors/Senior Executives Subordinates External clients Oversight committees None of the above 15 I have a current Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) certification or equivalent experience. Answer to this question is required True False 16 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 17 Choose the statements that describe written communication skills you used to convey information on acquisition and complex programs. Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials on acquisition and program issues for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials on acquisition and program issues for various audiences. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence on acquisition/program issues for signature by higher-level officials. I have edited acquisition/program reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience. I have responded to congressional inquiries. None of the above. 18 Do you have experience working on complex multi-million dollar supplies and services contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Do you have experience developing and implementing new and/or revised policies in support of contract and procurement activities for an organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Select the contract management functions you performed on a regular and recurring basis in support of facilities management programs and systems. Answer to this question is required Evaluating Requests for Proposals (RFPs). Leading in the acquisition planning process. Reviewing quality control plans, providing qualitative analysis, and ensuring contract compliance. Assessing competitive bidding procedures. Conducting technical and cost evaluations of proposals. Developing independent cost estimates. Monitoring work processes to ensure the contractor adhered to established costs. Determining which contract type was most applicable to the situation. Identified problems or issues related to contractors' compliance with safe work practices. None of the above. 21 Identify the budget-related tasks you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units or organizations Developed budget requests with supporting justifications Prepared requests for budgeted resources for an organization Engaged in the strategic planning process Applied financial analysis techniques to determine the effect of strategic decisions Used financial software and systems for developing budgets or forecasting Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting budgeting plans and justifications None of the above 22 Which types of appropriations have you used to fund contracts? Answer to this question is required Annual Multi-Year No-Year (funds remain available until expended with no fiscal-year limitation) None of the above 23 Do you have experience providing broad administrative and policy direction in budgeting a multi-million dollar program and associated processes for a Federal agency or private sector organization, including budget planning, formulation, justification, execution, and performance improvement and monitoring? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Which computer applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Powerpoint Sharepoint Adobe Acrobat Professional None of the above 25 Check all the responses that describe your current writing activities. Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Writing Statements of Work (SOWs). Writing reports or findings regarding investigation reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Writing communications to clients and/or stakeholders Writing trade or professional association publication articles. Writing graduate level or professional school thesis, practicum, or dissertation (or equivalent). None of the above 26 Please&nbsp;describe your experience formulating and executing facilities operation programs of a complex of large buildings or monumental facilities to include budget development, strategic and projects planning and execution, process improvement and organizational change. Maximum length of 1000 characters. Answer to this question is required 27 Demonstrated experience developing, leading, and implementing process improvement and innovative approaches designed to enhance customer service and program integrity while working collaboratively across organizational lines. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 28 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 28.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.