Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current FDIC employee on a competitive service (status) permanent appointment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Candidates must be a Commissioned Risk Examiner in the FDIC or another organization with comparable commissioning criteria used by the FDIC&rsquo;s Division of Risk Management Supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please provide the year of your commissioning. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency.&nbsp; Leadership Experience 1: Experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector, coordinating the work of employees in a work unit, including assigning and evaluating work; setting priorities, timelines, and expectations; and monitoring progress against goals. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience 2:&nbsp; Experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector, setting performance expectations; assessing employee performance; providing recognition and rewards; providing feedback and development opportunities; addressing performance or conduct issues; and participating in recruitment and hiring activities. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency.&nbsp; Technical Experience 1: Experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector, preparing, processing, or reviewing a variety of risk management work products, including reports of examination, correspondence, applications, targeted reviews, supervisory plans, and recommendations for supervisory actions. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency.&nbsp; Technical Experience 2: Experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector, developing and/or implementing supervision strategies relating to troubled, complex, and/or specialized financial institutions, and advising executives within an organization or high-level officials within banks on risk management and bank supervision policies, procedures, and/or enforcement activities. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have the required Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency.&nbsp; Technical Experience 3: Experience in either the federal or state government or the private sector, implementing policies, procedures, examination techniques, other matters relating to the technical and administrative aspects of risk examination work, and experience advising financial institution risk examiners on such topics. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).