Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Security &amp; Background Investigation Section must effectively communicate the agency's position on policy, issues, and/or concerns with a variety of individuals and groups, both inside the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided guidance and advice to Regional Directors, Wardens, and department heads on internal personnel security and background investigations; and/or I have represented the Bureau in a meeting with officials from other agencies to discuss Bureau policy regarding personnel security and background investigations; and/or I have negotiated during high-level conferences on the implementation of new or proposed policies that have been a significant impact on managerial decisions and Bureau wide policy practices; and/or I have provided expert advice to management regarding personnel security and background investigations. I have given a presentation at a meeting to clarify an issue within an institution/department; and/or I have provided up to date information during an administrator's meeting; and/or I have conducted an employment interview. I have advised management on program implementation strategies; and/or I have taught formal classroom security and background investigations training; and/or I have briefed a Warden, Associate Warden, Assistant Director, Deputy Assistant Director on the accomplishments and strategic plans for a department; and/or I have provided advice to management regarding security and background investigations. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Security &amp; Background Investigation Section must be able to create reports, memoranda, and letters in a clear and concise manner. He/she must write reports, policies, plans and other documents that are used to maintain and improve the section's overall operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written memoranda to staff to advise them of new policies; and/or I have developed schedules for various activities/meetings; and/or I have assisted in preparing strategic plans. I have written strategic plans for a department; and/or I have developed agency lesson plans for training; and/or I have responded to program review findings; and/or I have prepared briefings on personnel issues. I have composed national policy; and/or I have responded to congressional and judicial inquiries; and/or I have prepared response to Department of Justice (DOJ) or Office of Personnel Management (OPM) review; and/or I have developed or modified Bureau policy. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Security &amp; Background Investigation Section is responsible for developing or assisting in developing policies and procedures that impact the agency. He/she are also involved in issues that impact the headquarters office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed policy at the national level of an organization; and/or I have provided interpretation of personnel policy or procedure to Executive Staff at the highest levels in the organization; and/or I have routinely provided assistance in the interpretation of personnel security and background investigation policy and procedures to high level officials, etc. I have assisted in developing local policy and/or procedures within the facility; and/or I have assisted in developing policy and/or procedures in a work group on personnel security; and/or I have reviewed existing local policy to ensure compliance to existing regulations/national policy. I have developed policy for personnel at a local level of an organization; and/or I have provided interpretation of policy and/or procedures for the Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and/or I have provided interpretation of policy and/or procedures to others outside the local facility (i.e., Regional Office). None of the above. 7 The Chief, Security &amp; Background Investigation Section must have knowledge of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and Department of Justice (DOJ) regulations concerning security and suitability, federal regulations dealing with national security issues, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and Department of Justice (DOJ) procedures in the initiation and follow up of background investigations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have initiated/reviewed investigative files and made recommendations; and/or I have determined qualifications of an applicant to include the review of suitability objections; and/or I have provided information at job fairs or other recruiting functions at the institution, regional, or central office levels. I have supervised and provided guidance on employment issues to a support staff of security specialists and assistants; and/or I have given formal employment presentations on security policy and procedures; and/or I have worked with management to formally resolve employment suitability issues. I have briefed high-level staff inside and outside the agency on unique or complicated security/suitability matters; and/or I have developed policy/technical guidelines that impacted agency operations related to personnel security and suitability; and/or I have made modifications to security policy to ensure compliance with Office of Personnel Management and Department of Justice (DOJ) requirements. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Security &amp; Background Investigation Section frequently interacts with Bureau of Prisons staff and officials of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and Department of Justice (DOJ) components, and other agencies to effectively carry out program objectives. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided interpretation of personnel management program goals and objectives to Executive Staff at the highest levels inside/outside the organization; and/or I have developed formal training plans regarding personnel security for conferences for Wardens and above; and/or I have researched complicated personnel security issues and applied those findings; and/or I have provided written responses regarding personnel security issues to outside of the agency source inquiries. I have provided interpretation of personnel program goals and objectives to institutional Executive Staff or others in the agency; and/or I have participated in a Human Resources program related review (i.e., American Correctional Association (ACA) accreditation); and/or I have developed local training plans regarding personnel for facility staff; and/or I have provided assistance in researching Human Resource information for written responses to outside of the agency source inquiries. I have provided documentation and justification during a Human Resource operational review; and/or I have provided interpretation of Human Resource policy or procedures to staff within the facility; and/or I have provided personnel training for staff. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Security &amp; Background Investigation Section supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievances before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring program; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and/or increased morale. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).