Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Toggle navigation CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you meet the specialized experience requirement for this CT-11 position as listed in this vacancy announcement? Providing guidance and support to library users and staff on circulation procedures and established library workflows; OR Contributing to the development and revision of library procedures, documentation, and workflow improvements; OR Using automated tools and bibliographic databases to search, verify, and update catalog and holdings information; OR Assisting in drafting internal guidance documents, standard operating procedures, and process instructions for library functions; OR Supporting acquisitions activities by monitoring orders, preparing basic procurement documentation, assisting in budget tracking, and coordinating with vendors regarding routine requests. OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education in library science or doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) related to the position Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you meet the specialized experience requirement for this CT-12 position as listed in this vacancy announcement?&nbsp; Specialized experience is defined that through which one has gained experience in&nbsp; all &nbsp;of the following areas: Providing guidance and support to library users and staff on circulation procedures and established library workflows; AND Contributing to the development and revision of library procedures, documentation, and workflow improvements; AND Using automated tools and bibliographic databases to search, verify, and update catalog and holdings information; AND Assisting in drafting internal guidance documents, standard operating procedures, and process instructions for library functions; AND Supporting acquisitions activities by monitoring orders, preparing basic procurement documentation, assisting in budget tracking, and coordinating with vendors regarding routine requests. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 To be considered for this position, applicants are required to submit an Accomplishment Record. Do you confirm that you have already submitted your Accomplishment Record or will submit it before the announcement closes? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 4 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 200 characters. Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 9 I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).