Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. OR I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. OR I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Regional Education Administrators communicate on a regular and recurring basis with staff and high-level officials internal and external to the agency. They must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of education and recreation within the agency. They must be able to develop and present information simply and comprehensively to a variety of audiences and on a variety of technical and policy driven topics. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided briefings or an analysis to upper management or community partners on sensitive or critical issues related to education; and/or as a chairperson, I have guided a workgroup or symposium utilizing subject matter experts from the community to resolve an issue preventing the accomplishment of the education or recreation mission. I have given a presentation on an education topic or initiative at the national level or to a multi-disciplinary group including educational or recreational representatives from the community; and/or I have responded to questions regarding implementing change or policy compliance from the national level. In an effort to recruit community involvement for an education or recreation initiative or new program, I have provided the education component of a multi-disciplinary training to new managers, staff or targeted audience during a roundtable meeting with community leaders; and/or I have served as a subject matter expert for a state or local prison/jail, developed and implemented a literacy, vocational, or inmate community service program; and/or I have developed a new program concept or model and presented the concept to the Management and gained approval for implementation. I have served on a staff assist team, program review or auditor providing guidance to an education and/or recreation department; and/or I have functioned as an instructor for education and/or recreation training at the national level; and/or I have presented the education or recreation portion of inmate admissions and orientation on a regular basis. None of the above. 6 Regional Education Administrators must independently compose comprehensive reports, write corrective action plans, and make recommendations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed monitoring reports and corrective actions for education/recreation budgets; and/or I have responded to external auditing entities, such as the American Correctional Association, Correctional Education Association, Office of Inspector General, or General Accounting Office. I have developed a written monitoring and corrective action report for education and/or recreation program goals and outcomes or strategic indicators; and/or I have submitted a proposal for a new education or recreation program, innovation approach to education/recreation operations; and/or I have responded to an external or community-based inquiry related to education and/or recreation policy and procedure. I have prepared an education or recreation institution supplement; and/or I have evaluated and prepared documentation for major projects in education and/or recreation; and/or I have developed written responses to education and/or recreation Administrative Remedies and other inmate correspondence for the Warden's signature; and/or I have developed a program or curriculum that was designed for use with varying and diverse student populations. I have prepared memos and correspondence to the inmate population or various disciplines regarding education and/or recreation policy compliance or operations; and/or I have prepared a response to an incident report requiring knowledge of education or recreation policy. I have written summaries of education or recreation departmental meetings and teleconferences sponsored by the Central Office Education Branch or region; and/or I have provided required written response/recommendation to upper management for documents related to administrative remedies, literacy, occupational training, leisure-time, and/or wellness. None of the above. 7 Regional Education Administrators must be aware of all relevant American Correctional Association (ACA) Standards, policies, guidelines, and community standards in order to effectively manage an education program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided assistance to meet the goals of the department, committee, or workgroup designed to target the education, recreation, or reentry needs of the population; and/or I have drafted local protocols or procedures on education or recreation; and/or I have drafted the mission and goals, to include strategic steps for a reentry or other committee; and/or I have prepared administrative remedies and other correspondences for the management's signature; and/or I have served as the reviewer-in-charge/lead auditor for an education program review team. I have researched and interpreted policies and procedures and implemented new protocols to reduce waitlists or increase enrollments, completions, and participation levels; and/or I have developed institution contingency plans or internal procedures to maintain programming levels in time of budgetary constraints or staff shortages; and/or I have participated in the development of a policy or initiative adopted or considered by correctional/educational administration for consideration. I have served as a program coordinator or instructor; and/or I have served as a team member for an operational review and collected the necessary data and completed working papers; and/or to assist with the transfer or reassignment of duties, I have trained a co-worker regarding the procedures and protocols related to the operation and coordination of a program area. None of the above. 8 Regional Education Administrators effectively develop, administer, implement, and evaluate all aspects of educational, vocational, recreational, and related areas. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in improving an educational program; and/or I have participated in the development of local protocols and schedules for education and/or recreation; and/or I have managed an annual budget for a department or organization; and/or I have accessed information in SENTRY for program compliance. I have served on a reentry or educational workgroup to assess national trends and develop appropriate goals and action plans for the discipline; and/or I have examined data and made appropriate comparisons with other institutions and utilized to implement local changes regarding goals and program outcomes; and/or I have examined community-based programs and developed a funding or program proposal recommending local changes or new programs consistent with community standards. I have collected information and made recommendations to improve the efficiency of the education department; and/or I have identified training needs and manpower utilization; and/or I have reviewed local education data and determined its accuracy; and/or I have utilized local data to formulate strategic goals and outcomes for the department; and/or I have developed corrective actions when the institution/facility did not meet established goals. None of the above. 9 Regional Education Administrators must have an understanding of educational requirements and must possess knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory bodies to ensure program compliance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed the needs, quality, and effectiveness of an education and/or recreation program and identified and resolved deficiencies regarding reentry needs of the inmate population; and/or I have developed and provided staff training to meet the agency's goals for education and/or recreation. I have conducted staff assistance or visits at locations other than his/her assigned facility to education and/or recreation operations and program outcomes; and/or I have identified and implemented new teaching methods, learning techniques, and technologies resulting in improved program outcomes. I have coordinated a department strategic training or retreat for subordinate staff; and/or I have modified and improved existing programs and activities by updating course content and instructional methodology or submitted a budget proposal for additional funds; and/or I have determined program needs, and monitored programs. I have updated policy supplements; and/or I have reviewed policies and provided input to subordinates; and/or I have researched and answered questions pertaining to routine education and/or recreation issues; and/or I have assisted with activation activities related to education; and/or I have assisted in modifying existing programs and activities by updating course content and instructional methodology. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).