Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to compose correspondence.** Composed written documents, such as 1) reports, 2) research summaries, 3) standard operating procedures, 4) memos, 5) emails, and 6) instructions. Answer to this question is required Researched, compiled and composed documents for reporting requirements or program initiatives, or requests for information including ALL of the above. Researched, compiled and composed documents for reporting requirements or program initiatives, or requests for information including FOUR of FIVE of the above. Researched files and documents for information and composed documentation including THREE of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to use computerized search tools, databases, and functions.** Used computerized search tools, databases and applications necessary for the input and retrieval of information and to carry out tasks including, 1) creating or updating databases, 2) correction of data and metadata, 3) cataloguing and entry of scientific lab data, and 4) storage and archiving of digital documents. Answer to this question is required Using multiple automated tools, worked with database entry or creation, performed advanced searches on a number of library or preservation science databases and associated files to locate metadata and information and to complete ALL of the above. Using multiple automated tools, worked with database entry, performed searches on a number of databases and associated files to locate metadata and information and to complete ALL of the above. Used computerized search tools, databases, and applications necessary for the input and retrieval of information and to carry out assigned tasks. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to operate and maintain scientific, preservation laboratory, and/or imaging instrumentation.** Operated and maintained scientific laboratory equipment (e.g. imaging, spectroscopy, chemical and mechanical testing equipment) or preservation equipment (imaging, digitization, monitoring) used to perform duties associated with the preservation of collection materials, including: 1) performing routine equipment maintenance activities, 2) assist in training others on the use and maintenance of equipment, and 3) assisting in developing new data and imaging capture procedures. Answer to this question is required Operated, maintained and trained others in the use of scientific or preservation equipment used to perform duties associated with the analysis of materials as described by ALL of the above. Operated, maintained and/or trained other in the use of scientific or preservation equipment used in the analysis of materials as described in ONE or MORE of the above. Demonstrated knowledge of scientific or preservation equipment used to perform duties associated with the analysis of materials in a cultural heritage, library or academic environment. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan, organize, and execute work within specified deadlines. Planned, organized and carried out the work according to directions or standard operating practices. Answer to this question is required Planned workflow, selected and interpreted appropriate procedures and met quality and timeliness objectives to carry out the preservation research of a large general collection or difficult specialized collection(s). Completed specific tasks following instructions, procedural guides, and established policies for research of collection materials planned, outlined and provided by the supervisor. Followed through on assignments related to research planned by supervisor or instructor and met critical deadlines. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to use integrated information systems. Used integrated library systems, web-based tools and other computer applications to carry out technical scientific research and laboratory activities. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated knowledge of advanced features and capabilities of an integrated library system, web-based tools and other computer applications, including databases, word processing and email related to technical scientific research and laboratory activities.. Demonstrated knowledge of features and capabilities of an integrated library system, web-based tools and other computer applications, including databases, word processing and e-mail related to technical scientific research and laboratory activities. Used the features and capabilities of an integrated computer system, web-based tools and other computer applications, including databases, word processing and e-mail related to technical scientific research and laboratory activities. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of library and cultural heritage preservation processes and procedures. Used knowledge of the library and cultural heritage preservation processes and procedures. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated knowledge of complex library and cultural heritage preservation processes and procedures in a large or specialized library. Demonstrated knowledge of library and cultural heritage preservation function in a library. Demonstrated some knowledge of library and cultural heritage preservation processes and procedures obtained in an academic or library setting. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).