Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-14 level, specialized experience; Leading and integrating complex management and communication systems to support organizational business needs, analyzing large, diverse datasets; identifying risks and conflicts; and producing high-level reports, briefings, and executive correspondence for senior leadership, applying advanced program and project management principles to oversee multi-dimensional initiatives, strategic planning, lifecycle management, stakeholder engagement, and organizational process improvement, while delivering mission-critical outcomes in ambiguous or high-visibility environments. and coordinating across organizational units and executive leadership, utilizing strong communication and interpersonal skills to resolve challenges, align priorities, and support decision-making, while serving as a liaison on personnel, budget, and administrative matters. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you been responsible for developing project status dashboards for senior staff, as part of your work responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Have you been responsible for designing automated, ad-hoc reports to include assignment status, completed tasks, tasks failing to meet required deadlines and those having conflicts with other scheduled activities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you been responsible for using analytical and evaluative techniques to identify, consider and resolve procedural issues? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you worked for one year in a museum, other cultural institution, school, or online learning setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Choose the application(s) that you can use proficiently at this time, if any. "Proficient" means that you can use the software daily, to complete a wide variety of tasks, with only occasional consultations of peers, supervisors, or reference manuals. Answer to this question is required Microsoft PowerPoint Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Visio Microsoft Access Microsoft Project Other applications not listed here None of the above applications 8 Are you proficient at adding, adjusting and otherwise manipulating data, either in spreadsheets for analysis or for subsequent upload to a database? "Proficient" means that you can complete the task accurately and independently. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you used an application to coordinate file sharing for a team or work group? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Indicate each of the training materials you have developed for decision-making purposes. Answer to this question is required Meeting agendas Project timelines Financial reports Visual aids None of the above 11 Indicate each of the training materials you have developed for training purposes. Answer to this question is required Instructor lesson plans Course materials Training guides Visual aids None of the above 12 Complete the following statement accurately: I have been responsible for coordinating _________ matters for my employer. Answer to this question is required human resources budget financial information technology facilities protocol scheduling travel others[not mentioned here] none of these 13 Describe your level of experience communicating with, and assisting, high ranking government and corporate executives, where demonstrating appropriate behavior and diplomacy are essential to maintaining your organization&rsquo;s good public reputation. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.