Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of cataloging and inventory management.** Applied knowledge of cataloging and inventory management principles, concepts, and techniques to manage collections and carry out library programs. Answer to this question is required Applied extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of cataloging and inventory management, in order to manage library functions and/or programs. Including ALL of the following: 1) used a variety of cataloging standards (RDA, AACR2, etc), 2) created bibliographic records for serials, 3) created bibliographic records for monographs, and 4) created holding and item records. Applied in-depth knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of cataloging and inventory management, in order to perform library functions and execute programs. Including THREE (3) of the above. Applied general knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques of cataloging and inventory management in order to perform library functions and execute programs. Including TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to use integrated library systems, applications, or other information technologies.** Utilized various technologies to catalog library materials in order to carry out library functions, including: 1) Integrated Library Systems (ILS), 2) Classification Web, 3) classification and subject proposal systems, 4) OCLC, 5) RDA Toolkit, and 6) Microsoft Office Suite. Answer to this question is required Have proficiency in using ALL of the above systems and applications to catalog library materials. Have proficiency in using FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above systems and applications, including item ONE (1), to catalog library materials. Have proficiency in using THREE (3) of the above systems and applications, including item ONE (1), to catalog library materials. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to analyze cataloging problems that impact retrievability of collections and take corrective action to resolve issues.** Developed, planned, and evaluated strategies needed to coordinate and resolve cataloging issues and problems that impact retrievability of collections. Answer to this question is required Independently analyzed and resolved highly complex or unusual cataloging issues and problems in an Integrated Library System (ILS), to include evaluating bibliographic, holdings and items records for a range of collections, such as, print, microfilm, and special collections. As a member of a group or team, analyzed and resolved highly complex or unusual cataloging issues and problems in an Integrated Library System (ILS), to include evaluating bibliographic, holdings and items records for a range of collections, such as, print, microfilm, and special collections. Analyzed and recommended solutions for highly complex or unusual cataloging issues and problems in an Integrated Library System (ILS), to include evaluating bibliographic, holdings and items records for a range of collections, such as, print, microfilm, and special collections. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan, develop and execute library programs and projects. Planned, developed and analyzed strategies necessary to execute library programs and projects. Provided appropriate strategies to solve or avoid cataloging issues and problems that effect retrievability of collections. Answer to this question is required Led a team or independently planned, developed, evaluated, and implemented multiple library and information projects and services related to retrievability of collections. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. As a member of a team, planned, developed, evaluated, and implemented multiple library and information projects and services related to retrievability of collections. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, and ensured goals were met and policies and procedures were appropriately applied. As a member of a team, planned, developed, evaluated, and implemented a library and information project and service related to retrievability of collections. Discussed issues, evaluated alternatives and analyzed data to arrive at workable solutions; and made timely recommendations for modification or improvement. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others to provide consultation and liaison services.&nbsp; Provided consultation or performed liaison services to help solve problems, interact collaboratively on projects, and exchange information with persons inside and outside of an organization, including, supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside of the organization, including supervisors, experts, colleagues and/or trainees, and provided information on a variety of fields of library science. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside of the organization, including colleagues and/or trainees and provided technical information in the fields of librarianship and cataloging. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside the organization, and provided technical information in the fields of librarianship and cataloging. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to develop and provide training. Conducted and developed training programs and taught others how to perform library tasks. Tasks performed included: 1) foreseeing and identifying training needs, 2) designing content, user guides, and techniques, 3) conducting orientation and training, and 4) analyzing trainee feedback. Answer to this question is required Conducted informal training and designed and conducted formal training course(s) teaching others how to perform library tasks related to bibliographic access and other cataloging and collection management tools and performed ALL of the above. Conducted informal training and formal training courses teaching others how to perform library tasks related to bibliographic access and other cataloging and collection management tools and performed THREE (3) of the above. Provided informal training/coaching to staff and colleagues teaching them how to perform library tasks and performed TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).