Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine if you may be considered for selection without competing for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a BOP GS/GL/GM/GP employee. BOP reassignment eligible General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a BOP WS/WG employee. BOP reassignment eligible WS applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position. Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment (lateral transfer), change to a lower grade, or repromotion to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the full promotion potential of the position being announced. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the full promotion potential of the position being announced. 3.1 Do you meet one of the conditions listed above ? Yes, I am a BOP reassignment eligible. No, I am not a BOP reassignment eligible. (If you are not a BOP reassignment eligible, you are outside the area of consideration for this position.) I am a DOJ CTAP eligible employee. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3.1 The Senior Regional Financial Specialist interacts with management officials, and staff by providing financial advice and guidance, as well as, giving presentations on budget and accounting related issues.&nbsp; In addition, the Senior Financial Specialist interacts with personnel of other government agencies and the general public in resolving problems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided status of Financial Management Information System (FMIS), or comparable automated financial system to others when the system experienced problems; and/or I have given status of allotments; and/or I have provided routine information to Regional Program Managers about availability or status of funds; and/or I have provided guidance to staff on routine budget issues; and/or I have worked with individual/local Cost Center Managers (Regional Administrators and Program Managers) on local Regional Office budget issues; and/or I have participated in local level regional committee meetings related to budgetary issues. I have advised institution Executive Staff and department heads on budget related issues; and/or I have served as a chairperson on special workgroup/project; and/or I have given presentations at local institution budget and/or strategic planning meetings. I have resolved or clarified non-routine budget issues with Regional and Institution staff; and/or I have responded to questions from the field and regional staff on budget issues; and/or I have advised institution Business Administrators on resolving automated budget data problems; and/or I have worked with Headquarters Program Managers in the development and execution of regional budgets for regional and field operations; and/or I have served as management consultant and advisor on budget and program consideration and participates in regional budget and planning committee meetings which reviews and monitors regional office budget, institution committee meetings, and approves reprogramming requests. None of the above. 3.2 The Senior Regional Financial Specialist oversees as well as participates in the preparation of budget reports, plans, and other financial documents that are used to document, monitor, and maintain the region&rsquo;s financial integrity and well-being. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared operational memorandums related to oversight findings, Office of Inspector General (OIG) Audit findings, Central Office inquiries; and/or I have prepared correspondence to regional administrators regarding budget preparation instructions; and/or I have prepared reports to the Central Office Administration Division status of regional budgetary resources; and/or I have developed presentations to aid management in understanding and analyzing the impact of budgetary decisions. I have developed budget estimates and justifications which were utilized by institution management to request additional funding; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding technical report; and/or I have written local policies or institution supplements; and/or I have compiled statistical reports which included interpretations from upper management. I have prepared standard memos to request, remove, or reallocate funds; and/or I have prepared informational memorandum on required budgeting and accounting procedures within the region; and/or I have prepared meeting minutes for Regional Resource Allocation meetings; and/or I have developed lesson plans for Regional Financial Management Training. None of the above. 3.3 The Senior Regional Financial Specialist analyzes, draws conclusions, and/or makes recommendations regarding the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared and presented salary projections to the Executive Staff; and/or I have identified and provided projected fund status for local level operations funding (non-salary) to the institution Budget & Planning Committee; and/or I have provided training to institution staff (Cost Center Managers) to prevent errors and improve funds management; and/or I have used Financial Management Information System (accounting and Distributed Budget Module (DBM)) to develop reports and costs projections consistent with policy and general audit standards. I have provided guidance regarding budget activity/object class code relationships to field locations; and/or I have prepared monthly quarterly, or annual budget reports to be reviewed by the regional Comptroller prior to presenting it to the Executive Staff; and/or I have determined relevant budget data from computer reports for field/local offices; and/or I have determined and resolved minor discrepancies in reports; and/or I have identified improper spending for program areas, and initiated appropriate corrective action. I have analyzed deficits for program area and recommended solutions/corrective action; and/or I have developed budget for individual institutions/program areas; and/or I have determined the need for internal reprogramming; and/or I have reviewed budget justifications for validity and subsequent action by management, monitored obligations and operating plan and overall facility fund status; and/or I have identified unusual obligation trends, patterns on inconsistent rates in relationship to prior year history, investigated and determined causes for inconsistent spending patterns; and/or I have developed and/or made recommendation in budgets consistent with agency guidelines. None of the above. 3.4 The Senior Regional Financial Specialist uses a variety of procedures, policies, and regulations to determine the best use of financial resources. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided alternatives to field/local offices in using Financial Management Information System - Distributed Budget Module (FMIS-DBM) table files when pulling information, or use of other automated financial management program; and/or I have used Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy to determine budget reporting requirements for the fiscal year; and/or I have ensured authorized positions do not exceed the ceiling established when coordinating position actions in conjunction with Human Resource staff; and/or I have used agency budget manual and other policies (appropriation law, budget circulars, directives) to provide guidance to lower level staff in resolving budget issues. I have submitted reprogramming requests on time according to budget policy; and/or I have ensured budget submissions from program areas are in the proper format; and/or I have used the budget manual to determine appropriate obligations status and verified deadlines for various reports. I have met with the facility accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues; and/or I have ensured local level procedures were followed; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manger and Fund Control Training Classes to new department heads/cost center managers. None of the above. 3.5 The Senior Regional Financial Specialist must analyze, draw conclusions, and make determinations regarding regional fund status and compliance with Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Policy and Office of Inspector General (OIG) Audit standards (audited financial statements). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have proofed checks; and/or I have certified local payment data and travel settlements; and/or I have completed institution audit requirements as well as American Correctional Association (ACA) audit requirements; and/or I have audited agency financial statements. I have monitored accounting transactions to detect improper balances and notified field locations for corrective actions; and/or I have reviewed monthly proof checks for recurring un-reconciled items and initiated action; and/or I have monitored treasury financial reports for problems. I have checked daily accounting reports to ensure transactions were processed; and/or I have compared Financial Management Information System (FMIS) report with Headquarters/Outside reports to determine if accounting information is consistent; and/or I have reviewed subordinates work to determine if proper accounting entries were made. None of the above. I am applying under the special hiring authority for 30% or More Disabled Veterans. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. I am a federal employee in another government agency. This position is only open to BOP reassignment eligibles and DOJ surplus and displaced employees. Unfortunately you are outside the area of consideration for this position. Thank you for your interest in employment with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).