Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following describes your knowledge of copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in developing and implementing a code of best practices that includes policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works to improve access to a museum’s digital assets, and yet protect the museum from liability. I have work experience providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works. I have knowledge about copyright policies and standards for scholarly, commercial, and promotional use of digital images and other digital assets of copyrighted works. I have no experience with providing guidance and instruction to staff regarding copyright policies and standards. 3 Which of the following describes your knowledge of preservation standards for digital assets?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have knowledge and experience in developing and implementing preservation standards for digital assets management system for a cultural heritage institution. I have helped develop preservation standards for digital assets stored in a digital assets management system for a cultural heritage institution. I have applied preservation standards to digital assets stored in a digital assets management system. I am familiar with preservation standards for digital assets. I am not familiar with preservation standards for digital assets. 4 Which of the following statements reflect your experience in multimedia asset management and documentation? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Established digital file structure for multimedia file storage. Established procedures for near or off-line storage and retrieval of media assets. Archived multimedia assets to near and off-line storage in multiple formats. Created clear and accurate documentation of multimedia storage locations. Created primary and secondary locations of multimedia assets to ensure file retention. Documented multimedia asset properties (format, resolution, etc.) for appropriate reuse. Performed work on copyrighted assets appropriately and with guidance of copyrighting experts such as a company legal team. None of the above. 5 Which of the following best describe your experience managing metadata in digital asset management systems? Answer to this question is required I have experience ensuring technical (embedded) metadata is correct for assets uploaded to a digital asset management system. I have experience defining or editing consistent technical metadata for bulk upload to a digital asset management system. I have experience defining or editing technical, descriptive, and administrative metadata for assets in a digital asset management system. I have experience defining or editing automated as well as manually entered metadata in a digital asset management, including synchronization with external systems. I have no experience defining or editing metadata in digital asset management system. 6 What experience do you having using The Museum Systems (TMS) to perform record data entry and subject cataloguing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required . I have used TMS on a “read-only” basis to look up information about an artist or object. I have been responsible for updating existing records within TMS. I have been responsible for creating brand new records in TMS. I have formulated SQL queries and designed Crystal Reports in TMS. I have worked as a TMS database administrator, including establishing new user accounts, managing user security permissions, doing global edits, creating reports and training users. I have work experience using an electronic cataloging system other than The Museum Systems (TMS) Collection Management System. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of computer operations and skill as they relate to collections management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed complex database issues and implemented appropriate solutions. I have researched and implemented new workflows to better manage collections. I have trained others in using computer operations and databases for collections management. I have researched and implemented new technologies to better manage collections. I have developed policies and procedures for the use of computers and databases related to collections management. None of the above. 8 Do you have experience using an enterprise digital assets management system (DAMS)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Describe your authority with using computerized museum collections management information systems to manage exhibitions and incoming loans. Answer to this question is required Experience serving as the museum expert for exhibitions and loans within a computerized collections management system including The Museum System Experience with computerized collections management system including The Museum System. Experience with computerized collections management systems. No experience with computerized collections management systems. 10 Which of the following statements best describes your experience with photographic services and rights and reproductions in a photographic archive or museum? Answer to this question is required I have supervised photographic services and rights and reproductions issues in a photographic archive or museum, working with copyright of works by living photographers and supervising staff members who handle day-to-day image use and copyright issues related to photographic archives or museum collections. I have provided photographic services and rights and reproductions in a photographic archive or museum related to image use and copyright of photographic collections. I have assisted with photographic services or rights and reproduction in a photographic archive or museum. I have no experience with photographic services or rights and reproductions in a photographic archive or museum. 11 Which of the following best describes your knowledge and experience with rights and reproductions policies as they pertain to copyrighted works in a public collection?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed the rights and reproductions function for works in a public collection. I have work experience with applying policies of fair use and public domain as they pertain to public collections. I have work experience researching copyright and/or personality rights for works in public collections. I have work experience in locating and communicating with rights holders and in the negotiation of image license and usage agreements. I have completed coursework in how to apply rights and reproductions policies, concepts, and standards to works in public collections. I have no experience with rights and reproductions policies. 12 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience identifying, acquiring, and managing rights and permissions for online content and knowledge of best practices regarding the protection of intellectual property rights and individual privacy rights in content published on the web? Answer to this question is required I have independently acquired and managed rights and permissions for a creative project—such as a website, publication, or exhibition—published or presented by a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. I have worked as a key team member on a project acquiring and managing rights and permissions for content published or presented by a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. I have worked on a project acquiring and managing rights and permissions for a cultural, historical, educational, or arts organization. I do not have experience identifying, acquiring, and managing rights and permissions for online content. 13 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Coworkers/Peers Grantees Contractors Senior level officials Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, meetings Professionals within my organization Professionals from outside my organization Members of the public Foreign visitors Government officials Congressional members or staff None of the above 14 Which of the following most accurately describes the depth of your oral communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience as an instructor or group facilitator. I have experience as a public or program speaker in either a formal or spontaneous setting. I have experience making presentations to individuals or small groups with authority and influence in the organization that I work. I have experience making presentations at staff/office meetings. I have limited experience as a public speaker. None of the above. 15 Which of the following statements best describe your ability to communicate in writing? (check all that apply) &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have had experience in writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda and in making recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in content of draft reports written by others. I have had experience writing drafts of office-wide reports. I have made recommendations to supervisor or higher management regarding changes in style of draft reports written by others. I have had experience in writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have developed written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have prepared correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have written papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by upper management. I have notified individuals or offices in writing of decisions to be made by upper management. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 16 Which of the following best describes your written communication skills? Answer to this question is required I have experience writing or editing memoranda, documents, or reports. I have experience writing or editing newsletter articles, technical documents, task force reports, operating procedures, or portions thereof. I have experience drafting or doing the research for organization or agency policy or manuals. I have not performed any of the above functions. 17 Which of the following statements best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals? Answer to this question is required I have explained agency policy and regulations and provided background of the rationale for such policies, as well as used negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. I have routinely educated, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. I have routinely worked with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have routinely worked with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. None of the above. 18 Which of the following describes your experience performing leadership functions successfully in projects that you have led? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.