Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 5 Which of the following reflects your experience overseeing procurement review within an organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed procurement or financial transactions for accuracy and financial coding. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they comply with procurement regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure they contain required components (i.e., statement of work, product specifications, vendor bids, payment schedule, etc.). I have reviewed procurement transactions to ensure that documentation is adequate and appropriate. I have advised staff and management on documentation or specifications required for procurement transactions. I have advised management of potential impact of changing regulations for the organization. I have developed written guidelines and procedures for administrative functions such as procurement None of the above. 6 Which of the following procurement and/or contracting functions have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have prepared or reviewed Requests for Quotations (RFQs) or Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to obtain vendor proposals and pricing. I have participated in technical evaluation of vendor submissions to determine the most cost-effective proposal. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of purchases orders. I have NOT performed these job functions. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing/reviewing financial documents, verifying complete and correct information and financial data, preparing/reviewing documents to deposit revenue, and recording transactions and reconciles financial records? Answer to this question is required I have prepared and reviewed financial documents. I have verified complete and correct information and financial data. I have prepared and reviewed documents to deposit revenue. I have recorded transactions. I have reconciled financial records. None of the above. 8 Which of the following describes your experience with financial management techniques? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience evaluating internal controls. I have work experience evaluating compliance with established policies. I have work experience preparing or reviewing financial documents such as invoices, bank statements and payment vouchers. I have experience or training in accounting, auditing, finance, business, or a related field. I have not done any of the above tasks. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience in reconciling financial reports and Federal and Trust funds? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of principles, practices, and processes for reconciling financial reports through classroom training. I have reconciled Federal and Trust funds with close supervision on a quarterly basis. I have reconciled Federal and Trust funds with close supervision on a monthly basis. I have independently reconciled both Federal and Trust funds on a quarterly basis. I have independently reconciled both Federal and Trust funds on a monthly basis. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience using financial and management information systems such as the Enterprise Resource Management System (ERP) and Excel spreadsheets to allow the comparison of a variety of forms and financial documents to resolve financial questions and to prepare financial reports? (Check all that apply) &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing reports to identify variances between the accounting systems and budget reports or other internal reports detailing reasons for variance and presenting possible solutions. I have work experience preparing internal financial reports for an organization on items such as monthly updates to salary models, reports detailing telecommunications charges, and monthly expenditure reports by department identification. I have work experience completing forms and spreadsheets to prepare financial reports for an organization using an automated financial system such as ERP. I have work experience completing forms and spreadsheets to prepare financial reports for an organization without using an automated financial system. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience utilizing financial database systems? Answer to this question is required I have used basic software applications and programs to assist in the preparation of routine financial reports I have used a financial system on a daily basis, and used basic financial management software applications and programs to prepare financial and expenditure reports. I have used a variety of financial management software applications and programs on a continuing basis to prepare complex financial reports and to analyse financial status, trends, or expenditures for use in presentations. None of the above 12 Which of the following coordination tasks have you provided? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Coordinating tasks with coworkers inside my immediate office Coordinating tasks with coworkers inside my organization Coordinating tasks with outside organizations Coordinating tasks with vendors Coordinating tasks with outside individuals None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in establishing and maintaining office files/records for retrieval, reference, and storage (in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules)? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in establishing and maintaining office files/records for retrieval, references, and storage, in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules. I have completed formal training in establishing and maintaining office files/records for retrieval, references, and storage, in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have established and maintained office files/records for retrieval, references, and storage, in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have established and maintained office files/records for retrieval, references, and storage, in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have established and maintained office files/records for retrieval, references, and storage, in compliance with files maintenance and disposition schedules as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.