Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification. 2 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST &nbsp;electronically upload a proof of certification at the time of application. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Process Improvement Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from co-workers, staff from institutions, regional offices, Central Office, to high-ranking officials of the Department of Justice and other government agencies. He/she will also have frequent contact with private sector entities and the public. He/she must be able to communicate in order to interact, negotiate and/or persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical assistance to staff; and/or I have interacted with BOP managers while involved in a project; and/or I have performed and coordinated management analysis functions to determine methods of continuous improvement; and/or I have provided guidance and advice for less experienced staff; and/or I have assisted with teaching training courses/seminars for Bureau of Prisons staff. I have participated as a member of a task force or work group; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have been considered an expert or authority on specific industry sectors; and/or I have developed/taught training courses/seminars; and/or I have chaired branch meeting. I have provided input on a continuous improvement project; and/or I have completed training in teaching courses/seminars for Bureau of Prisons staff; and/or I have provided input in a root cause analysis project. None of the above. 6 The Process Improvement Specialist will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, private sector entities, line staff, and the public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the development of internal e-mail/memorandums that coordinated manufacturing/quality concerns with others; and/or I have provided internal documentation to vendors; and/or I have provided input for technical report used to communicate with vendors and customers. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandum or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries. I have prepared instructional material/information for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared technical responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report. None of the above. 7 The Process Improvement Specialist must analyze reports, surveys, data, and complex statistical problems. He/she determines inconsistencies and informs management of issues needing attention. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined business group opportunities by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have employed the use of multi-variate techniques while involved in the individual business opportunity. I have obtained data from research team to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have identified new industrial opportunities through an analysis of statistics. I have assisted in collecting and reporting data to a member of management; and/or I have assisted in providing input that was utilized for a suggestion program to recommend improvements; and/or I have provided input on training to establishing requirements, or collecting and analyzing data; and/or I have assisted in the development of a suggestion program to recommend improvements within the factory; and/or I have assisted in providing informal training related to establishing improvement suggestion program requirements; and/or I have actively participated in a process improvement work group that provided a cost reduction or process improvement to the factory’s operations. None of the above. 8 The Process Improvement Specialist must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with staff at all levels at Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, Federal Prison Industries, and other Federal, State and local entities. He/she will also be required to interact with, develop, and maintain professional relationships with the private sector. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provide guidance to work crew on quality or production levels; and/or I have communicated factory policies and requirements to workers; and/or I have ensured monthly safety talks are provided and understood by assigned work crews. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level; and/or I have participated on a work group within a BOP division which developed internal policy; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. I have coordinated facility visits; and/or I have conducted a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have presented information during departmental meetings; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have recognized possible inmate conflict and immediately took corrective action before rising to next level. None of the above. 9 The Process Improvement Specialist must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have held meetings addressing risk analysis, conducted management review meetings; and/or I have developed product plans; and/or I have represented the factory in meetings to obtain customers or vendors. I have planned processes to meet or complete normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for purchase; and/or I have managed accountable property for the factory. I have modified processes to meet internal or external customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for the branch; and/or I have successfully met due date requirements of multiple projects; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for section staff while acting in the capacity of deputy branch chief. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must possess a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification. 2 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I possess a Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST &nbsp;electronically upload a proof of certification at the time of application. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Process Improvement Specialist communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from co-workers, staff from institutions, regional offices, Central Office, to high-ranking officials of the Department of Justice and other government agencies. He/she will also have frequent contact with private sector entities and the public.&nbsp; He/she must be able to communicate in order to interact, negotiate and/or persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force or work group; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have been considered an expert or authority on specific industry sectors; and/or I have developed/taught training courses/seminars; chaired branch meeting. I have provided technical assistance to staff; and/or I have interacted with BOP managers while involved in a project; and/or I have performed and coordinated management analysis functions to determine methods of continuous improvement; and/or I have provided guidance and advice for less experienced staff; and/or I have assisted with teaching training courses/seminars for Bureau of Prisons staff. I have exchanged information with personnel from Office of Management and DOJ and other Federal agencies; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external private sector Corporate staff and various company officials; and/or I have communicated finding of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 6 The Process Improvement Specialist will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, private sector entities, line staff, and the public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have prepared weekly status briefing; and/or I have written internal policy/institution supplement/operations memorandum; and/or I have independently prepared reports, documentation, or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have written a comprehensive program review report. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandum or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries. I have prepared instructional material/information for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared technical responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report. None of the above. 7 The Process Improvement Specialist must analyze reports, surveys, data, and complex statistical problems. He/she determines inconsistencies and informs management of issues needing attention. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained data from research team to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have identified new industrial opportunities through an analysis of statistics. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future opportunities; and/or I have analyzed and conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed industry data and made recommendations or findings utilized by senior level staff; and/or I have used a variety of resource venues to collect statistical data which was included in a major report; and/or I have analyzed results of program review data and developed trend or deficiency reports; and/or I have made a decision on which statistical analysis procedure and/or program to use in the examination of research data. I have determined business group opportunities by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed key indicators/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have employed the use of multi-variate techniques while involved in the individual business opportunity. None of the above. 8 The Process Improvement Specialist must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with staff at all levels at Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, Federal Prison Industries, and other Federal, State and local entities. He/she will also be required to interact with, develop, and maintain professional relationships with the private sector. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level; and/or I have participated on a work group within a BOP division which developed internal policy; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. I have assisted in public relations activities such as open house for outside groups and tours; and/or I have served as member of a committee or task force addressing issues affecting the organization or agency; and/or I have served on a task force to develop and modify programs; and/or I have participated in executive staff meetings and presented information regarding changes in the department. I have coordinated facility visits; and/or I have conducted a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings and presented information; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have recognized possible inmate conflict and immediately took corrective action before rising to next level. None of the above. 9 The Process Improvement Specialist must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned and implemented specific corporate project from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the purchasing of resources (i.e., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions); and/or I have modified production line to meet an emergency requirement (i.e., halted normal production to produce emergency product and met shipping requirements); and/or I have managed multiple projects successfully to completion; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for branch staff while acting in the capacity of branch chief. I have modified processes to meet internal or external customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for the branch; and/or I have successfully met due date requirements of multiple projects; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for section staff while acting in the capacity of deputy branch chief. I have held meetings addressing risk analysis, conducted management review meetings; and/or I have developed product plans; and/or I have represented the factory in meetings to obtain customers or vendors. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).