Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 Do you have&nbsp; experience performing worker-level electrical work without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 10 1 Do you have&nbsp; experience performing journey-level electrical work without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 11 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Please indicate your highest level of responsibility maintaining electrical systems: Answer to this question is required I have completed training or education related to the maintenance of electrical systems, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted with electrical systems under direct supervision from others. I have trained others on the procedures for performing electrical work. I have independently maintained electrical systems. None of the above. 2 Have you assisted senior workers in removing, installing, troubleshooting, and repairing defective electrical wiring systems, controls, fixtures, and equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have read and interpreted electrical drawings for the following reasons: Answer to this question is required To install electrical fixtures To repair electrical equipment To repair electrical circuits To add on/extend electrical circuits To assemble electrical equipment To determine manufacture’s specification None of the above 4 Select the guidance documents you have interpreted to perform electrical work. Answer to this question is required Written instructions Blueprints Schematics Job orders Wiring diagrams None of the above 5 Which of the following responses best describe your knowledge and experience with low voltage switchgear, transformers, and service equipment? Answer to this question is required I have extensive electrical knowledge and experience. I have intermediate electrical knowledge and minimal experience. I have basic knowledge and have assisted journey-level electricians. I have no electrical knowledge or experience. 6 In which of the following types of building environments do you have the most experience performing electrical system preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light Commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 7 Do you have experience applying safety rules that affect the public? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select the responses that demonstrated your ability to read, interpret, and revise schematic drawings and other documentation. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Created, maintained, and modified drawings and sketches. Identified, read, and interpreted power distribution drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted instrumentation and communication drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted electrical drawings and specifications. Identified, read, and interpreted relay, solid state, and logic drawings and specifications. None of the above. 9 Which hand and power tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (handsaw, drill, and reciprocating saw) Voltage testers Amp meters Circuit traces Meggers Cable pullers Hydraulic benders Pipe threading machines None of the above 10 I have read and interpreted electrical drawings to perform the following tasks. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. To install electrical fixtures. To repair electrical equipment. To repair electrical circuits. To add on or extend electrical circuits. To assemble electrical equipment. To determine manufacturer's specifications. None of the above. 11 Select the types of electrical systems and equipment on which you have performed troubleshooting tasks. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Uninterrupted Power Systems (UPS) Fire alarm systems Variable speed drives and electric motor starters for air conditioning systems Generators Automatic transfer switches Automatic door systems Computerized lighting systems None of the above 12 Which actions have you performed to assist a senior employee or journeyman? Answer to this question is required I prepared work sites (e.g., placed tarps over areas/items to be protected). I retrieved materials and tools. I cleaned the work site. I disposed of work site debris (e.g., pipe scrap, dirt). None of the above. 13 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducting electrical repairs and maintenance duties: Answer to this question is required I perform routine and advanced electrical repairs and maintenance duties including removing and replacing fixtures and controls. I am able to relocate or install new outlets and switches in existing systems. My work is highly planned, very specific, and is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I perform routine to advanced electrical repairs and maintenance duties including removing and replacing fixtures and controls. I am able to relocate or install new outlets and relays in existing systems. My work is assigned in broad general instructions covering the scope of the task assigned. My work is reviewed for compliance with acceptable trade practices. I make repairs that require tightening connections, wrapping exposed wiring with insulating tape, and soldering loose wire leads to contact points. My work is routinely monitored for quality and completeness before closing out work orders. None of the above 14 Which of the following hand tools have you used to perform electrical work? Answer to this question is required Screwdrivers Pliers Wire strippers Drills Conduit benders Conduit threaders Voltmeter None of the above 15 Which of the following type(s) of tools do you have experience using in the electrical trade? Answer to this question is required Basic hand tools (screwdrivers, wire cutters, pliers) Basic power tools (Sawzall, drill, and impact driver) Voltage testers Amp meters Circuit traces Meggars Arial lifts (Boom lifts, bucket truck, line truck) None of the above 16 Select the responses that demonstrate your ability to install, maintain, and repair wiring systems. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Selected, laid out, and installed circuit wiring for power and lighting. Performed troubleshooting of circuit wiring for power and lighting. Selected, laid out, and installed feeder cables for single and multi-conductor cables, metallic and non-metallic cables. Selected, laid out, and installed electric heating systems. Selected, laid out, and installed wiring for hazardous locations. Selected, laid out, and installed overhead distribution systems. Selected, laid out, and installed underground distribution systems. None of the above. 17 Select the types of electrical problems you have experience trouble shooting. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. No power from outlets/lights Motor control issues (e.g., flow switch, timing relay) Exhaust fan motor issues Circuitry malfunctions None of the above 18 Select the types of electrical equipment on which you have performed preventive maintenance. Answer to this question is required Check all that apply. Single Phase Motors Electrical Controllers Three Phase Motors Household, Industrial, and Shop Equipment Variable Frequency Drive None of the above 19 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.