Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. AND B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet ALL the minimum qualification requirements described above. No, I do not meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements described above. This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and&nbsp;educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration&nbsp;documentation for verification at the time you apply. 2 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 3 In addition to the minimum education, license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and education requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Psychiatric Nurse must be able to express ideas and instructions to a variety of individuals with various backgrounds.&nbsp; He/she must possess strong verbal communication skills in order to exchange technical medical information with other medical and mental health professionals, explain procedures to inmates/patients, and convey information concisely and effectively to others both internal and external to the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed the care delivered during medical emergencies, such as respiratory or cardiac arrest, trauma, or suicide attempt; and/or I have responded to emergencies such as persuading violent inmates/patients to remain calm and quiet and allow treatment to proceed; and/or I have gained inmate/patient compliance through the use of confrontational avoidance techniques. I have assigned routine daily assignments to staff or inmates/patients; and/or I have successfully directed staff in the performance of job functions; and/or I have conveyed verbal emotional support to inmates/patients/families prior to the beginning of treatment or inmate/patient educational sessions. I have mentored and taught nursing staff regarding daily duties; and/or I have communicated and taught inmates/patients pertaining to individual medical needs; and/or I have conducted inmate/patient groups; and/or I have provided internal training to staff on a new procedure being implemented; and/or I have reported medical or correctional issues to supervisors/management for proper action. None of the above. 5 The Psychiatric Nurse must be able to document all pertinent inmate/patient information in medical charts, complete written documentation to be included in inmate/patient records and transcribe, review, and execute physician&rsquo;s orders.&nbsp; He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to produce effective written documentation on inmate/patient medical needs and services required. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared internal nursing policies or standard operating procedures to be used by staff; and/or I have prepared written results of an investigation that will be used by higher authorities or court officials; and/or I have prepared a justification which supported the purchase of new equipment and resulted in streamlined nursing care; and/or I have prepared inmate/patient education materials to be utilized in psycho-educational activities. I have revised existing nursing policies and procedures; and/or I have prepared performance assessment on subordinate nursing staff/inmate workers/patients/janitorial staff; and/or I have thoroughly documented medical information in inmate/patient records for use by other mental health professionals. I have prepared work orders, and supply requisitions; and/or I have prepared informational memorandums for internal use describing uncomplicated incidents or events; and/or I have prepared an incident report; and/or I have documented routine inmate/patient care on medical charts; and/or I have transcribed physician’s orders. None of the above. 6 The Psychiatric Nurse must possess the ability to develop, change, interpret, translate, and implement policies and procedures governing the provisions of nursing care and services in a correctional/hospital environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed or implemented recommendations made by work group or committee; and/or I have implemented inmate/patient care based on established treatment plans which comply with the needs of high-risk inmates/patients; and/or I have referred to and interpreted policies and regulations pertaining to the delivery of inmate/patient care. I have implemented a new policy or procedure; and/or I have took a leadership role in developing satisfactory treatment plans for high-risk inmates/patients based on individual needs; and/or I have performed nursing care independently using sound clinical judgement following nursing standards of care; and/or I have made recommendations for revisions to nursing care policies. I have participated in the development and carrying out of a treatment plan for a high-risk inmate/patient; and/or I have reviewed established work schedules and made scheduling adjustments based on established procedures; and/or I have referred to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th Edition, (DSM-5) as necessary while performing assessments. None of the above. 7 The Psychiatric Nurse must possess the knowledge and skills (i.e., medical, surgical, and mental health) and correctional/hospital techniques and principles necessary to provide appropriate assistance for the nursing staff during emergency situations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reacted in emergency medical situations by providing emergency medical treatment; and/or I have identified and appropriately intervened during a mental health crisis; and/or I have directed inmate/patient care during situations such as cardiac/pulmonary arrest/emergent triage; and/or I have coordinated efforts with correctional/hospital staff during emergency medical situations in a correctional/hospital environment. I have appropriately set priorities to accomplish most important functions during emergency situations; and/or I have assessed inmate/patient condition and made appropriate recommendations to prevent deterioration of situation; and/or I have obtained appropriate assistance in the event of an emergency. I have advised other health care professionals in prioritization of emergency medical situations; and/or I have assessed inmate/patient medical condition and notified physician to avoid possible medical complications; and/or I have coordinated nursing care for serious, but not life-threatening medical traumas. None of the above. 8 The Psychiatric Nurse must have the ability to recognize, assess and evaluate mental health inmates/patients.&nbsp; He/she must possess the skills needed for recognizing suicidal tendencies and the ability to intervene as necessary. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed admissions or suicide assessments which were subject to higher level review; and/or I have performed subordinate nursing duties in a small mental health ward of a private hospital/correctional environment; and/or I have monitored inmates/patient’s reaction to newly prescribed medications and notified physician/charge nurse of negative reactions observed. I have performed suicide assessments on multiple inmates/patients and modified treatment plans based on observations of emotional conditions; and/or I have recognized and de-escalated behavioral characteristics of mental health inmates/patients (i.e., suicidal tendencies, and aggravated or subdued states); and/or I have coordinated inmate/patient treatment plans across the healthcare team (i.e., assessing dysfunction and administering psychotropic medications and monitoring and managing side effects). I have made basic notations on inmate/patient charts (i.e., medications received, treatment times); and/or I have discussed inmate/patient observations with supervisory nurse in order to maintain standard of care for inmate/patient; and/or I have performed admissions assessments on inmates/patients. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).