Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS- 11 grade level in the federal service as defined in the statement below?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No Candidates for the GS-12 grade level must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized Experience is defined as having experience in (3) of the (6) following (experience must be reflected in resume): Specialized experience for this position includes: Knowledge of employee training and development concepts, policies, practices, regulations, and procedures to develop and administer programs that meet the organization&rsquo;s needs and facilitate a well-trained and developed workforce.&nbsp; Expert experience in instructional course design and development to collaborate with program professionals and vendors in developing appropriate and valid training programs and materials.&nbsp; Experience in the techniques and practices of training and development needs assessment to conduct an ongoing needs assessment program and to assist managers and employees in the use of individual development plans. Expert knowledge of analysis and evaluation techniques and methods to assess the effectiveness of training and development programs, identify shortfalls and problems, and develop recommendations to enhance program performance. Experience in the ability&nbsp;to evaluate off-the-shelf training and development materials and externally developed courses, coupled with the ability to research and develop materials in unfamiliar subject matter areas to assess the application of such materials and courses in meeting current and future training and development needs. Advanced oral and written communication skills to prepare reports, make presentations, discuss training and development needs with staff and external vendors, and conduct training and self-assessment programs. 2 Select&nbsp;the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in elements of training development. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with training materials to be delivered in person. I have assisted with microlearning materials. I have assisted with mobile learning materials. I have assisted with online learning materials. I have assisted with support materials for experiential learning (ex. On-the-job training). None of the above 3 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in elements of training development. Answer to this question is required I have assisted with the design and development substantive training plans including learning objectives for a wide variety of occupations and job functions. I have assisted with writing substantive training program plans and policy for an agency. I have assisted with developing and delivering training courses. I have assisted with developing and delivering training materials designed for virtual formats. I have assisted with leading the curriculum planning and management of one or more substantial in-house training programs focused on a broad and/or mission-critical segment of the agency. None of the above Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Candidates for the GS-13 grade level must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized Experience is defined as having experience in (5) of the (6) following (experience must be reflected in resume): Specialized experience for this position includes: Knowledge of employee training and development concepts, policies, practices, regulations, and procedures to develop and administer programs that meet the organization&rsquo;s needs and facilitate a well-trained and developed workforce.&nbsp; Expert experience in instructional course design and development to collaborate with program professionals and vendors in developing appropriate and valid training programs and materials.&nbsp; Experience in the techniques and practices of training and development needs assessment to conduct an ongoing needs assessment program and to assist managers and employees in the use of individual development plans. Expert knowledge of analysis and evaluation techniques and methods to assess the effectiveness of training and development programs, identify shortfalls and problems, and develop recommendations to enhance program performance. Experience in the ability&nbsp;to evaluate off-the-shelf training and development materials and externally developed courses, coupled with the ability to research and develop materials in unfamiliar subject matter areas to assess the application of such materials and courses in meeting current and future training and development needs. Advanced oral and written communication skills to prepare reports, make presentations, discuss training and development needs with staff and external vendors, and conduct training and self-assessment programs. 2 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in elements of training development. Answer to this question is required I have designed and developed substantive training plans including learning objectives for a wide variety of occupations and job functions. I have written substantive training program plans and policy for an agency. I have developed and delivered training courses. I have developed and delivered training materials designed for virtual formats. I have led the curriculum planning and management of one or more substantial in-house training programs focused on a broad and/or mission-critical segment of the agency. None of the above 3 Select&nbsp;the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in elements of training development. Answer to this question is required I have developed training materials to be delivered in person. I have developed microlearning materials. I have developed mobile learning materials. I have developed online learning materials. I have developed support materials for experiential learning (ex. On-the-job training). None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 From the&nbsp;list below, select the response(s) below that you have performed to evaluate complex education or training programs. Answer to this question is required I have evaluated training program administrative policies and procedures to identify problems and/or omissions, and create, revise and improve complex policies and procedures where directly applicable directives and precedents are not available or are contradictory. I have evaluated curricula related to an organization's education or training programs to identify problem areas and develop innovative solutions and curricula improvements. Additionally, I have addressed the most difficult current and emerging challenges related to instructional learning program issues. I have evaluated instructional methods and techniques related to education or training programs and have identified learning problems and devised innovative solutions. l have kept current on state-of-the-art developments in the training and development field to provide expert consultation and advisory services. I have evaluated staff and faculty qualifications for education or training programs to ensure the quality of program operations. I have evaluated the adequacy and utilization of training aids and devices, facilities, and equipment for education or training programs. I have evaluated student testing and counseling services related to education or training programs, to ensure that learners receive appropriate testing and counseling services. My experience also includes providing expert guidance and advice to management and employees on questions about training policies. I have evaluated student and management feedback to improve education or training programs. None of the above 2 From the&nbsp;list below, select the response(s) below that describe(s) your recent work experience to implement an organization's learning activities program.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have conducted an instructional analysis and identified instructional goals, including creating goal statements that describe the skill, knowledge, or attitude that a learner will be expected to acquire. I have conducted an instructional analysis, including identifying what a learner must recall and identifying what a learner must be able to do to perform a particular task. I have analyzed learners and learning settings, including identifying general characteristics of the target audience such as prior skills and experience. I have written performance objectives that describe the learning objective(s) and criteria that will be used to judge the learner's performance. I have developed assessment instruments that assess the entry (pre-training/pre-instruction) behavior of learners, and assessment instruments that assess the post training/post-instruction behavior of learners. I have developed instructional strategies, including the following: pre-instructional activities, content presentation methods, and learner participation strategies. I have developed and selected instructional materials. I have designed, conducted, and summarized learner evaluation(s) to identify instructional strengths and weaknesses. None of the above 3 Select&nbsp;the&nbsp;response(s) that describe(s) your experience providing technical advice and guidance to employees and managers on training program issues. Answer to this question is required I have provided training advisory services to managers and employees of an organization. I have made informed recommendations regarding training and related operational and business planning. I have solved complex problems regarding training materials, training methods and priorities using my technical experience, judgment, and knowledge of precedents. I have balanced a variety of clients (such as managers, employees, and other stakeholders) and have readily recommended on the spot solutions and adjusted priorities to respond to pressing and changing demands and time constraints. I have monitored training budgets and resource requirements to make recommendations regarding the best use of training resources and new training program needs. None of the above 4 Select&nbsp;the response that best describes your experience with providing expert guidance, consultation, and advisory services regarding educational resources to management. Answer to this question is required I have independently performed research and data analysis regarding instructional technology and virtual learning to support an organization's instructional technology and virtual learning initiatives. I have coordinated segments of an organization's instructional design program and have made recommendations to management based on the results of my analysis and have informed management of possible trends and emerging risks. I have assisted with the performance of analysis, including gathering, analyzing, and summarizing data in order to assess and assist in the development of an organization's instructional learning initiative(s). I have recommended and implemented program improvements in my immediate organization. I have assisted with the performance of analysis, including gathering, analyzing, and summarizing data in order to assess and assist in the development of an organization's instructional learning initiative(s). I have recommended program improvements to senior level managers in my immediate organization. None of the above 5 Select the responses that reflect the written, informational materials you have developed. Answer to this question is required Frequently Asked Questions and Answers or other materials explaining rights, procedures or obligations. Materials to be used in education and training programs, (e.g., course outlines, instructional presentations, course exercises, and reference guides). Reports, papers, other detailed materials explaining policies or positions. Tip sheets and user-friendly tools. None of the above 6 Select the statement that&nbsp;best describes your experience with leading and managing a large-scale educational program such as a corporate-style university or other organizational learning and development program. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 7 Select the statement that best describes your experience with utilizing adult learning principles and theories in the analysis, design, development, implementation and evaluation of training and development programs. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 8 Select the statements that describe your experience with the development of training and learning for organizations. (No Choice Limit) Answer to this question is required Used instructional systems design frameworks or related processes, such as the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Evaluation (ADDIE) Model and/or the Successive Approximations Model (SAM). Conducted job task analyses and/or training needs analyses. Designed and developed training materials, curriculum, courses, evaluation materials, and/or training programs. Delivered and/or facilitated training, courses, evaluation materials, and/or training programs. Incorporated and maximized availability of emerging technologies, including, but not limited to, web-based learning, learning management systems (LMS), and mobile learning. Collaborated with Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) in the design and/or development of learning materials. Conducted training evaluations and/or analyzed training evaluation data. Established or encouraged organization-wide support of continuous learning and development. Oversaw implementation of learner-centered, self-directed learning opportunities. None of the above. 9 Select the statements that best describe your experience with establishing new procedures or features for learning, training, and development across a large organization. (No Choice Limit) Answer to this question is required Developed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and/or policy documents that have been implemented across an agency or other organization. Developed standards for training needs assessment and provided staff with guidance and expertise on the analysis and implementation of the assessment, data analysis, and interpretation of the results. Wrote, reviewed, and created course and curriculum standards and expectations. Provided training and guidance to others to enhance their training and development skills. Developed and implemented learning evaluation metrics. None of the above. 10 Select the statement that best describes your experience with researching and applying adult learning best practices and trends. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 11 Select the statement that best describes your experience with conducting training needs and/or gap analyses to use data to guide effective and efficient solutions. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 12 Select the statement that best describes your experience in supporting the administrative and/or logistical aspects of training and learning program development and implementation. Answer to this question is required I have never performed this duty. I have education and training in performing this duty but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this duty and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. 13 What teaching and/or learning styles and strategies have you implemented? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Direct instruction (traditional; lectures and teacher–led demonstrations). Inquiry-based learning (investigation and hands-on learning). Cooperative learning (emphasis on group work). Facilitator (focuses on activities). Other. None of the above. 14 Select the statement that best describes your experience with providing counseling, advice, and/or guidance to others regarding learning opportunities, upskilling, career development, and/or career paths. Answer to this question is required I have supervised the performance of this duty, and/or I have trained others so they can perform this duty, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this duty. I have performed this duty as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I have performed this duty on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have education and training in performing this duty, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have never performed this duty. 15 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience in elements of training development. Answer to this question is required I have designed and developed substantive training plans including learning objectives for a wide variety of occupations and job functions. I have written substantive training program plans and policy for an agency. I have developed and delivered training courses. I have developed and delivered training materials designed for virtual formats. I have led the curriculum planning and management of one or more substantial in-house training programs focused on a broad and/or mission-critical segment of the agency. None of the above 16 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 16.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.