Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. Candidates for the GS-13 grade level must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-12) grade level in the Federal service.&nbsp; &nbsp; Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate the following: Structural engineering experience of complex, monumental, historically significant and mission-critical buildings and building-supporting structures. Coordinating and providing oversight of project lifecycles, including planning, design, construction, commissioning and close-out. Developing project requirements and specifications for new construction, renovations, and improvements to facilities. Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects. Serving as a Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for construction projects. Grade: 14 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a degree in professional engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; OR include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that has furnished me with (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (a) Professional registration, (b) Written Test, (c) Specified academic courses, (d) Related curriculum. None of the above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Candidates for the GS-14 grade level must have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-13) grade level in the Federal service.&nbsp; &nbsp; Specialized experience for this position must demonstrate the following: Structural engineering experience of complex, monumental, historically significant and mission-critical buildings and building-supporting structures. Serving as the planning and program manager of major projects, from the planning/programming stage through the design, construction and equipment installation stages, to the checkout and commissioning stage or other project completion milestone. Developing project requirements and specifications for new construction, renovations, and improvements to facilities. Evaluating studies, plans, design specifications and progress reports for architectural, engineering and construction processes and projects. Coordinating and overseeing assigned project work elements in the project contract. Serving as Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or equivalent for construction projects. Grade: All Grades 1 Which certifications, registrations, coursework or degrees do you hold? Answer to this question is required A Registered Architect (RA) certification A Professional Engineering (PE) certification A Historic Preservation degree (Bachelors, Master's Degree or PhD) Historic Preservation course work A Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) A Certified Construction Manager (CCM) A Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification A Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification AACE International (AACEi) Certification Contracting Officer (CO) Certification Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) Certification None of the above 2 Do you have experience completing structural engineering design for buildings? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have experience using structural engineering design software? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Do you have historic preservation work experience on historically significant monumental buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Managed Quality Assurance on a project Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 6 Do you have experience providing advisory services and making recommendations to senior level officials and/or oversight committees on facilities and program management for a large organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which project management challenges have you overcome to achieve project outcomes? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Insufficient funding / budget allowance Short deadlines Changing scope Changing priorities or resources Competing projects Unforeseen site conditions None of the above 8 In which stages of design have you participated in a professional setting? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Project kickoff Pre-design Archival research and historic record reviews Schematic design Design development Development of construction documents None of the above 9 Which design activities have you performed for a historically significant monumental building? Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. Developed design and construction documents. Developed technical specifications. Developed general provisions (e.g., client needs, program of requirements, site restrictions and limitations, etc.). Reviewed cost estimates associated with the design. Completed historic preservation research. None of the above 10 Select the reasons for which you have initiated change orders to a design you reviewed. Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. To meet client needs or preferences To achieve the strategic goals of the project To reduce costs To improve overall outcomes or performance To avoid or resolve political concerns None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing project schedules? Answer to this question is required I have worked as a full-time scheduler for my organization and developed comprehensive planning, design, and/or construction schedules that were logic driven and resource loaded. I have developed my own project schedules. I have worked closely with a scheduler or senior staff to develop and update schedules for projects under my management. I have adhered to schedules developed by others. None of the above. 12 Which of the following have you communicated to customers as a part of your job? Answer to this question is required Updated management on the project status Provided recommendations for the readjustment of funds, schedules and tasks associated with the project Communicated with local and Federal agencies to ensure that construction operations are in compliance with safety and environmental regulations and standards Provided technical guidance to lower level employees on technical matters None of the above 13 Select the writing activities you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Select all that apply. I have written summaries or oral discussions (e.g., meeting minutes, e-mail for documentation purposes) I have written reports for completed projects I have completed a class or training on technical writing techniques I provided guidance to others on how to improve the quality of their written products None of the above 14 I have developed a design for a historically significant monumental building. Answer to this question is required True False 15 Select the historically significant facilities for which you have created designs. Answer to this question is required Museums Monuments or sculptures Churches or cathedrals Residential buildings Libraries Government facilities None of the above 16 Select the design-related tasks that you have performed in a professional setting. Answer to this question is required Developed structural design calculations. Used computer-aided design (CAD) software independently to develop a structural design. Modified structural designs to comply with historically significant monumental building limitations. Provided structural design review comments. Performed site inspections to confirm compliance with construction documents. Performed site inspections to confirm that existing building conditions match existing record drawings. Performed structural condition assessments of existing structures. Used Building Information Modeling (BIM) software independently to develop a structural design. Ran structural computer modeling to include seismic modeling. Sheeting and shoring design for site, building or utility excavations. Blast design for new and existing buildings. Seismic Design for new and existing buildings. None of the above. 17 I have designed structures to resist: Answer to this question is required Blast forces Extreme wind forces Seismic forces None of the above 18 Select the activities you have performed related to seismic and blast design. Answer to this question is required Blast design for new buildings Blast design for existing buildings Dynamic analysis for blast Dynamic analysis for seismic Interpreted report data for a seismic or blast analysis None of the above 19 What experience do you have with disaster response? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Lead a disaster response team. Participated on a disaster response team. Wrote a disaster response report. Designed projects based on a disaster response report. Designed repairs based on a disaster response report. None of the above. 20 Which response best describes your highest level of experience administering contracts? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience administering contracts. I have education or training related to administering contracts, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have worked as part of a team to administer contracts. I have been independently administered contracts as a COTR. 21 Select the documents you have reviewed to perform preliminary design research and analysis. Answer to this question is required Geotechnical reports Hydrology studies Land surveys (e.g., boundaries, topography, and utilities) Existing building analysis reports Existing building record drawing survey Surveys of existing hazardous materials Site analysis drawings Comparative site analysis reports Seismic evaluation/retrofit design for existing buildings None of the above 22 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 22.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.