Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Have you completed: A.) A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field; OR B.) At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 If answer to the previous question was yes: please specify the area of study, the university, and the year of degree conferment. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Do you hold a current active Federal Acquisition Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 How many years of experience do you have in the federal&nbsp;Contracting Series (1102) career field? Answer to this question is required None. 1-4 years. 5+ years. 7 Ability to plan, organize and execute work, including special projects.** Planned, organized and executed work assignments. Answer to this question is required Independently executed multiple, complex work assignments, selecting work objectives and determining project approaches, specific project steps, schedules, milestones, and resources and input required. Independently executed work assignments, including selecting work components and setting deadlines, milestones, and responsibility areas. Completed routine work assignments planned by supervisors, meeting critical deadlines, and completing work, under general supervision. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of Federal contracting regulations, principles, and procedures to develop and issue solicitations and contracts.** Applied knowledge of Federal contracting regulations, principles, policies, and procedures. Answer to this question is required In a professional capacity, independently applied knowledge of federal regulations in executing work in a contracting/procurement organization within the federal government. Demonstrated detailed knowledge of applicable regulations, principals, policies and procedures. In a professional capacity, used knowledge of and experience interpreting Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and policies to assess and analyze information to support and execute work in a federal government contracting/procurement organization. In a professional capacity, used knowledge of and experience interpreting Federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, and policies to provide support on contracting/procurement activities which may include serving as a Contract Specialist and/or providing guidance to FEDLINK members or CORs. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote clear, accurate, and thorough written materials such as: 1) source selection plans, 2) contract review board packages, 3) solicitations, 4) inter-agency agreements, 5) determinations and findings, and 6) reports. Answer to this question is required Prepared, reviewed, and/or edited documents concerning contract and procurement activities, including ALL of the documents listed above. Prepared, reviewed, and modified documents concerning contract and procurement activities, including FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the documents listed above, including 2) and 3). Prepared documents concerning contract and procurement activities, including AT LEAST THREE (3) of the documents listed above, including 2) and 3). None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked well and cooperated with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, vendors, clients and/or customers) to provide positive and professional service to clients by anticipating their existing and future needs and completing the office&rsquo;s work. Answer to this question is required Served as the primary contact for evaluating customer acquisition needs, working directly with a diverse work and client community both internally and externally to determine sources for supplies or services, determining acquisition strategies, and providing timely feedback on customer needs. Regular collaboration with other divisions in an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact in evaluating customer needs, under general supervision, working with a diverse work and client community internally to determine sources for services, determining acquisition strategies and providing timely feedback on customer needs. Regular collaboration with other divisions in an organization to monitor or complete work. Assisted the primary contact in evaluating customer needs, locating services for staff and providing timely feedback to customers. Regular collaboration with co-workers to complete work. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).