Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. I have a degree in auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. OR B. I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; OR Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum qualification requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Internal Auditor is charged with planning, organizing, conducting and analyzing audits in the areas related to the management and administration of all operations and any other&nbsp;areas as directed by the Executive Staff of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP).&nbsp; He/she evaluates the effectiveness of&nbsp;internal controls and detects the potential for fraud, waste, and abuse.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations based upon statistical information received from an audit to improve programs; and/or I have assisted with the planning of an audit; and/or I have participated on a team responsible for gathering data, evaluating practices and making proposed changes aimed at increasing the effectiveness of a program. I have determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have compared data to previous reports; and/or I have participated in a local audit. I have planned, organized and conducted an agency level audit; and/or I have evaluated the results of an audit and provided recommendations to agency leadership; and/or I have made recommendations based on the results of an audit that led to agency-level corrective action; and/or I have headed a task force or team charged with gathering, evaluating and reporting on a major issue; and/or I have independently developed and implemented audit plans. None of the above. 6 The Internal Auditor serves as an independent Auditor and is required to conduct audits using the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or other industry recognized auditing standards adopted.&nbsp; He/she conducts internal audits of the Federal Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; (FBOP) operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed audit plans based upon the scope of the audit; and/or I have assisted others with an audit using Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) principles or other industry recognized auditing standards; and/or I have assisted with managing audit teams (i.e., assigned tasks); and/or I have participated as a team member on an audit. I have conducted an audit using Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or other industry recognized auditing standards; and/or I have identified and analyzed audit findings in difficult situations; and/or I have during an audit, drew conclusions from data and provided recommendations. I have knowledge in Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) principles or other industry recognized auditing standards; and/or I have observed an agency audit; and/or I have served as a first level Supervisor and reviewed audit findings by others; and/or I have served on a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy based upon audit results. None of the above. 7 The Internal Auditor uses a wide variety of tools to look for&nbsp;and gather information, organize and maintain information or&nbsp;information management systems, to create flow charts, conduct&nbsp;risk assessments and to create working papers.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a system to collect, organize and maintain information obtained during an audit; and/or I have organized audit results and presented them to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/executive team members; and/or I have maintained audit information in a database and retrieved information upon request by an external third party; and/or I have used Microsoft Visio and created flow charts to conduct risk assessments. I have used Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat to create working papers with direction from Supervisor; and/or I have researched policy for a perpetual audit; and/or I have gathered information from various automated systems related to a perpetual audit or local audit; and/or I have assisted in the preparation of audit reports or other documentation. I have assisted in the development of a system to collect, organize and maintain information obtained during an audit; and/or I have assisted in the organizing of audit results; and/or I have drafted segments of a perpetual audit or local audit report based upon review of working papers; and/or I have maintained audit information in a database and retrieved information upon request by Supervisor. None of the above. 8 The Internal Auditor communicates results of the internal audit planning and field work with team members and the Audit Manager.&nbsp; He/she communicates with Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) in other divisions of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP).&nbsp; The Internal Auditor serves as a member of committees, task forces and panels for information sharing.&nbsp; He/she presents oral briefings to management and other stakeholders and participates in presenting findings with leadership. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented briefings to upper management on sensitive issues from the result of an internal audit; and/or I have as a chairperson, guided workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have as a committee member, led a presentation and responded to questions; and/or I have given a press conference; and/or I have given presentation at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings; and/or I have chaired labor/management negotiations. I have successfully resolved routine conflicts among co-workers and/or peers; and/or I have briefed immediate Supervisor regarding a local concern; and/or I have referred telephone inquiries to the appropriate source. I have coordinated tours and open houses; and/or I have answered questions from the field or regional staff; and/or I have participated on a Community Relations Board and given feedback; and/or I have led a class on public speaking. None of the above. 9 The Internal Auditor documents information obtained from their audit in an audit plan and develops a comprehensive audit report for the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP) leadership. &nbsp; The Internal Auditor prepares documents for the audit to include notifications for audits, exit and entrance procedures, and requests for information and reports. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed newsletter articles, reports, correspondence and memorandums for higher authority; and/or I have reviewed written material of peers for clarity, grammar and content; and/or I have received requests for information and prepared email correspondence to gather information requested; and/or I have prepared an Incident Report. I have drafted an audit report for a national/agency-level audit; and/or I have drafted audit documents to include notifications and exit/entrance conference procedures for a national/agency-level audit; and/or I have prepared responses for external stakeholders related to national/agency-level audits; and/or I have developed national policy that was adopted for use by the agency. I have written articles for newsletter; and/or I have written memorandums for informational purposes for peers; and/or I have prepared documentation to be used in an administrative court hearing. None of the above. 10 The Internal Auditor has a thorough knowledge and understanding&nbsp;of the mission and goals of the Federal Bureau of Prisons (FBOP)&nbsp;to effectively carry out primary responsibilities of evaluating&nbsp;and documenting audit results from the audit process.&nbsp; He/she&nbsp;independently resolves problems or conflicts that arise during&nbsp;the audit process.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved information from a database regarding correctional program issues, personnel, and/or security; and/or I have participated as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have assisted with conducting management assessments; and/or I have assisted others with resolving conflicts during an audit. I have facilitated training for visual searches of inmate work or living area; and/or I have noticed atypical behavior in an inmate and took appropriate corrective action; and/or I have ensured proper entrance and exit procedures were followed during an audit. I have served as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have served on correctional institution committees to formulate institution policy; and/or I have identified violations of the law or regulations made by individuals in a Federal Prison facility and took appropriate corrective action; and/or I have conducted management assessment and staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have as a lead auditor, resolved problems or conflicts that arose during an internal audit. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).