Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst is required to maintain intense communications daily with all levels of management for the purpose of providing and exchanging subject matter expertise as it pertains to the development and implementation of strategies and approaches used to prepare reports, analyze and resolve issues related to the organization&rsquo;s mission. He/she will interact daily, and frequently, with senior management providing support within and outside the agency. The Management Analyst has extensive telephone communication with high-level officials which include Executive Staff and higher level of contacts within the Federal Prison Industries (FPI), Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and external offices.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical assistance to managers and staff on matters related to operating guidelines; and/or I have interacted with Section Chiefs; and/or I have briefed Support Managers and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have presented information to internal managers and directed less experienced staff. I have interacted with staff on conducting audits and spreadsheet reports; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have exchanged information with co-workers regarding the design of a data research project. I have interviewed inmates during an investigation; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or I have, during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, spreadsheets, charts, correspondence, and procedural guides.&nbsp;He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include internal senior Federal Prison Industries (FPI) managers and other external officials.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared pre-formatted correspondence; and/or I have prepared an agenda/program for a conference; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. I have developed meeting agendas and participant handouts; and/or I have assisted in documenting data for spreadsheets for information exchange for management; and/or I have drafted/proposed responses to requested inquiries about financial data; and/or I have drafted correspondence for management review and signature. I have prepared charts and files in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update organization’s financial status; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammar and format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst is responsible for evaluating various software applications, departmental financial records, and procedures to fulfill the changing demands of the business group.&nbsp;He/she creates and presents reports for the section staff, such as multi-media presentations and data charts for display at meetings and senior management level conferences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have gathered documentation in order to respond to inquiries; and/or I have assisted in determining trends for high-level review; and/or I have made recommendations for problems/issues resolution for higher level approval. I have participated in an audit; and/or I have responded to inquiries regarding procedures for applying policy; and/or I have provided general information to co-workers on policy and guidelines within the office. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have participated in the management assessment process; and/or I have participated on a section work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be able to establish and maintain good working relationships with all levels of management and staff internal and external to the organization.&nbsp;He/she is dependent upon management and staff within various departments to work with him/her in order to improve work output of departmental personnel and complete projects assigned.&nbsp;Therefore, it is essential for the Management Analyst to possess outstanding communication skills and build relationships in order to complete tasks.&nbsp;He/she independently handles inquiries from Central Office and the field for staff listings and updates, as well as general and specific questions on financial related information.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made recommendations to supervisor concerning operational procedures within the department; and/or I have requested assistance in resolving conflicts within the department; and/or I have assisted supervisor in planning for future resources (i.e., office supplies, staffing, work assignment changes); and/or I have requested and received training on conflict resolution. I have scheduled and maintained calendar for work group to discuss organization changes; and/or I have assisted staff in requesting information from other departments; and/or I have provided training to staff or other department staff concerning travel procedures. I have actively participated in an audit review for his/her section; and/or I have provided recommendations on staff availability on position control results to management; and/or I have participated in meetings in order to complete unresolved information/discrepancies. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must have superior computer skills and the ability to apply software application knowledge. He/she must communicate effectively with co-workers, management, contractors, outside agencies, and has a direct impact on the success of the Federal Prison Industries (FPI) demanding organization changes.&nbsp;The Management Analyst must be skilled in extracting complex data, spreadsheets, charts and graphics to use databases to facilitate financial reporting.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have retrieved information from an established database; and/or I have prepared documents and/or forms using word processing applications; and/or I have created a basic database to track financial data; and/or I have entered survey data into a database or Microsoft Access file. I have used general knowledge regarding computer software packages to accomplish tasks; and/or I have inputted or retrieved technical information from a computer; and/or I have responded to general issues related to computer software. I have recognized and corrected data deficiencies; and/or I have inputted or retrieved technical information from computer programs; and/or I have retrieved information from computer to provide technical or non-technical information to management/staff; and/or I have provided an answer concerning the status of a project; and/or I have trained a person in the use of training tools and use of computer software; and/or I have gave instructions telephonically on the use of software. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst is required to maintain intense communications daily with all levels of management for the purpose of providing and exchanging subject matter expertise as it pertains to the development and implementation of strategies and approaches used to prepare reports, analyze and resolve issues related to the organization&rsquo;s mission. He/she will interact daily, and frequently, with senior management providing support within and outside the agency. The Management Analyst has extensive telephone communication with high-level officials which include Executive Staff and higher level of contacts within the Federal Prison Industries (FPI), Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and external offices.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have briefed management on issues within and outside of the discipline; and/or I have provided highly technical information to General Managers, Support Managers, Associate Wardens, external high-level private industries executives, private company Chief Executive Officers and federal agency Senior Managers; and/or I have utilized skills to influence and/or persuade others to use particular approaches to aid in meeting objectives of the Corporation. I have provided technical assistance to managers and staff on matters related to operating guidelines; and/or I have interacted with Section Chiefs; and/or I have briefed Support Managers and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have presented information to internal managers and directed less experienced staff. I have interacted with staff on conducting audits and spreadsheet reports; and/or I have provided guidance to employees on task accomplishments; and/or I have exchanged information with co-workers regarding the design of a data research project. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, spreadsheets, charts, correspondence, and procedural guides.&nbsp;He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include internal senior Federal Prison Industries (FPI) managers and other external officials.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared charts and files in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to update organization’s financial status; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammar and format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries. I have composed memorandums to division managers and staff about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries from external organizations; and/or I have prepared responses for staff signature without changes; and/or I have created technical status reports and issued papers; and/or I have prepared/written statement of work concerning financial data requirements for the organization; and/or I have prepared data for spreadsheets. I have developed meeting agendas and participant handouts; and/or I have assisted in documenting data for spreadsheets for information exchange for management; and/or I have drafted/proposed responses to requested inquiries about financial data; and/or I have drafted correspondence for management review and signature. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst is responsible for evaluating various software applications, departmental financial records, and procedures to fulfill the changing demands of the business group.&nbsp;He/she creates and presents reports for the section staff, such as multi-media presentations and data charts for display at meetings and senior management level conferences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed information and determined trends based on performance and statistical data; and/or I have participated in the management assessment process; and/or I have participated on a section work group for policy issuance or modification; and/or I have compared data to previous yearly/quarterly reports and determined trends and made recommendations accordingly. I have gathered documentation in order to respond to inquiries; and/or I have assisted in determining trends for high-level review; and/or I have made recommendations for problems/issues resolution for higher level approval. I have extracted complex computer data and established spreadsheets, evaluating practices and making proposed changes aimed at increasing effectiveness of a program; and/or I have participated as a member of a work group charged with gathering information for special projects; and/or I have evaluated and reported on a major issue; and/or I have conducted an audit project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for further research. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be able to establish and maintain good working relationships with all levels of management and staff internal and external to the organization.&nbsp;He/she is dependent upon management and staff within various departments to work with him/her in order to improve work output of departmental personnel and complete projects assigned.&nbsp;Therefore, it is essential for the Management Analyst to possess outstanding communication skills and build relationships in order to complete tasks.&nbsp;He/she independently handles inquiries from Central Office and the field for staff listings and updates, as well as general and specific questions on financial related information.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled and maintained calendar for work group to discuss organization changes; and/or I have assisted staff in requesting information from other departments; and/or I have provided training to staff or other department staff concerning travel procedures. I have actively participated in an audit review for his/her section; and/or I have provided recommendations on staff availability on position control results to management; and/or I have participated in meetings in order to complete unresolved information/discrepancies. I have maintained communication through direct contact interaction and with management and staff from other Departments, Division Offices and other modes of communication such as telephone, email, facsimile, and training tools; and/or I have conducted meetings outside the department to resolve issues and facilitate recommendations by all participants of the meeting; and/or I have actively participated in department head meetings; and/or I have participated in national conferences to improve performance of the department. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must have superior computer skills and the ability to apply software application knowledge. He/she must communicate effectively with co-workers, management, contractors, outside agencies, and has a direct impact on the success of the Federal Prison Industries (FPI) demanding organization changes.&nbsp;The Management Analyst must be skilled in extracting complex data, spreadsheets, charts and graphics to use databases to facilitate financial reporting.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed technical documentation, such as systems design, user guides, and flow diagrams; and/or I have applied existing documentation by writing programs according to specifications to accomplish a variety of corporate management objectives; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed distributed and undistributed resources; and/or I have identified new resources to meet new or changing program goals. I have used general knowledge regarding computer software packages to accomplish tasks; and/or I have inputted or retrieved technical information from a computer; and/or I have responded to general issues related to computer software. I have recognized and corrected data deficiencies; and/or I have inputted or retrieved technical information from computer programs; and/or I have retrieved information from computer to provide technical or non-technical information to management/staff; and/or I have provided an answer concerning the status of a project; and/or I have trained a person in the use of training tools and use of computer software; and/or I have gave instructions telephonically on the use of software. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).