Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works? Answer to this question is required I have provided my expertise in guiding ethical collections stewardship; evaluated, incorporated, and communicated the latest developments in collections stewardship practice; and provided expertise in the design and implementation of organization-wide guidelines, policies, and procedures. I have provided advice on complex stewardship issues; used expertise to identify and resolve conflicts pertaining to collections procedures, requirements, regulations, and policies. I have made recommendations to develop effective collections policies and procedures and gathered information from internal and external stakeholders. I have education or training in writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works but no hands-on experience. I do not have experience writing and implementing guidelines, policies and procedures regarding collections works 3 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience in overseeing two-and-three-dimensional object collections? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of the principals and theoretical concepts of professional collections work to oversee museum collections, and collections planning and stewardship guidelines, processes, and procedures; and have partnered with leadership and staff to establish and implement collections stewardship initiatives. I have considered best practices when assessing collection stewardship processes and procedures; coordinated across the organization to determine resources to support goals; and worked with organization managers or employees to address mutual issues and concerns. I do not have experience overseeing two-and-three-dimensional object collections. 4 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience communicating regarding collections works? Answer to this question is required I have developed and communicated long-term strategic collections policies, procedures, and training; created new methods for planning, designing, and carrying out collections program initiatives; and established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. I have communicated organizational collections policies and procedures and developed plans to address areas needing improvement; and reevaluated current procedures and suggested improvements to ensure strategic collections goals. I have developed project teams and staffing plans based on consideration of strategic collections objectives and developed collections-related training for staff. I have education or training in communicating regarding collections works but no hands-on experience. I do not have experience communicating regarding collections works. 5 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided supervision or lead subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's or teammate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate or teammates employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates or teammates . I have assigned work to subordinates or teammates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates or teammates . I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and/or coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following statements describe your highest level of experience supporting organizational goal and objectives regarding collections works ? Answer to this question is required I have formulated collections objectives and priorities and implemented plans consistent with long-term strategic and operational goals and objectives. I have established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to assess adjust collections program direction. I have implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of organizational collections goals and objectives. I have conducted review of the organization’s goals and objectives and gathered information from relevant sources to support management directives. I have developed project teams and staffing plans based on consideration of strategic and operational objectives; and ensured team objectives are consistent with current and future management directives. I do not have experience regarding supporting organizational goal and objectives regarding collections works. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.