Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Describe your experience developing and executing an HR strategy that directly advanced organizational goals in a large, complex organization. In your response, explain the approaches you used to provide strategic direction and how you ensured alignment, integration, and measurable impact. &nbsp; Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 Please describe your demonstrated ability and experience developing, launching, and enhancing HR program initiatives, including recruiting, onboarding, performance management, training, high potential programs, and succession planning. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Please describe your demonstrated knowledge and practical application of employment and benefit laws through knowledge of, or exposure to, Federal Government employment. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Please describe your demonstrated experience and skill in building cooperative relationships between colleagues, and with internal and external stakeholders, as well as negotiating solutions that address varied, complex and occasionally opposing interests. This includes explaining positions/solutions, both orally and in writing, and gaining acceptance by museum and/or research facility colleagues and customers/managers at all levels. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Please provide your skills in leading, supervising, and managing a multi-disciplined and talented workforce, including fostering teamwork and high morale as well as attracting, retaining, and motivating employees.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.