Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 12 semester hours of graduate course work in clinical psychology, counseling psychology, or social work including three (3) semester hours as an intern/practicum student in a clinical treatment setting. OR 12 months, full-time, professional experience in treating (i.e., developing treatment plans, conducting individual and group therapy) to individuals with mental health and/or substance use disorders. Applicants must state their professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses this factor. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician ensures information is communicated orally with staff internal to the Agency, outside stakeholders and inmates. He/she advises staff on scheduling of groups/training opportunities or supplies needed for the program. He/she attends meetings with supervisors/staff from other disciplines to share information/recommendations. He/she informs the supervisor on clinical issues, attends weekly sessions and provides caseload updates. He/she conducts interviews with inmates to encourage participation in the program. He/she possesses strong verbal communication skills to provide individual/group counseling sessions to inmates, interview/perform assessments of inmates entering into the program and explain program requirements/procedures/treatment plans with inmates. He/she presents medication assisted treatment programming/information to administration/staff/community coalitions. From the choices below, select the one that describes your experience. I have presented a clinical example case in class; and/or I have participated in a discussion with peers following the observation of a clinical team; and/or I have participated in a discussion following the observation of a group therapy session. I have presented a case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have delivered training in a professional workshop; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups; and/or I have chaired a professional meeting or led a professional discussion group. I have taught psychoeducational classes; and/or I have participated in a professional discussion group; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy; and/or I have participated in a clinical team. None of the above. 5 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician must be able to demonstrate the ability to develop written information such as treatment plans and summaries, clinical progress reports, and documents from group and individual treatment. These documents are often included with correspondence to criminal justice authorities, and treatment providers.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted psychosocial assessments which aided in determining treatment needs for individuals; and/or I have developed treatment plans; and/or I have written treatment summaries describing recommendations for further treatment; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings from sample cases; and/or I have developed a sample treatment plan; and/or I have written a case summary from an example case. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have prepared intra-office memorandums; and/or I have written clinical case presentations. None of the above. 6 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician conducts group and individual therapy with inmates focusing on counseling that revolves around substance use treatment and the underlying causes of a substance use disorder. He/she must learn and apply new assessment and treatment techniques and use these techniques to develop rapport and treatment goals during counseling sessions of inmates. During counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor the behavior and facilitate the group process. He/she is skilled in developing individualized treatment plans for program participants. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have co-facilitated group treatment with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have provided case management in a non-clinical setting; and/or I have facilitated a psychoeducational class. I have under supervision of others, provided group or individual psychotherapy with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have implemented individualized clinical treatment plans; and/or I have provided case management in a clinical setting. I have completed advanced coursework in group and individual psychotherapy; and/or I have co-facilitated a psychoeducational class; and/or I have observed a therapy group. None of the above. 7 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician has extensive knowledge of theories, principles, practices and techniques of psychology and substance use treatment, along with knowledge in Medication Assisted Therapy (MAT) as it pertains to the correctional population. He/she recognizes symptoms of substance use, mental illness, or a combination of both. He/she provides comprehensive psychological services to inmates with substance use disorders to include opioid and alcohol use disorders. The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician has consultative supervision for clinical decisions and peer clinical consultation with Psychology Services staff, Health Services Administrator, and medical practitioners. He/she administers eligibility and psychosocial assessments as the basis for inmate treatment plans. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted structured diagnostic interview under the clinical supervision of another treatment provider; and/or I have recommended provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have under the clinical supervision of another treatment provider, conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. I have evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness for admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have performed screenings for substance use or mental health services; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine an individual’s need for support services (i.e., medical or housing services). I have attended seminars in substance use disorders or mental health issues; and/or I have made referrals to treatment programs; and/or I have attended staff meetings that included treatment discussions. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: 24 semester hours of graduate course work in clinical psychology, counseling psychology, or social work, including six (6) semester hours as an intern/practicum student in a clinical treatment setting. OR 24 months, full-time, professional experience in treating (i.e., developing treatment plans, conducting individual and group therapy) to individuals with mental health and/or substance use disorders. Applicants must state their professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 3 Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND my resume clearly addresses this factor. No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician ensures information is communicated orally with staff internal to the Agency, outside stakeholders and inmates. He/she advises staff on scheduling of groups/training opportunities or supplies needed for the program. He/she attends meetings with supervisors/staff from other disciplines to share information/recommendations. He/she informs the supervisor on clinical issues, attends weekly sessions and provides caseload updates. He/she conducts interviews with inmates to encourage participation in the program. He/she possesses strong verbal communication skills to provide individual/group counseling sessions to inmates, interview/perform assessments of inmates entering into the program and explain program requirements/procedures/treatment plans with inmates. He/she presents medication assisted treatment programming/information to administration/staff/community coalitions. From the choices below, select the one that describes your experience. I have taught psychoeducational classes; and/or I have participated in a professional discussion group; and/or I have co-facilitated group therapy; and/or I have participated in a clinical team. I have presented a case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have delivered training in a professional workshop; and/or I have facilitated psychotherapy groups; and/or I have chaired a professional meeting or led a professional discussion group. I have facilitated process psychotherapy groups; and/or I have made presentations at professional conferences; and/or I have instructed a face-to-face undergraduate or graduate course. None of the above. 5 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician must be able to demonstrate the ability to develop written information such as treatment plans and summaries, clinical progress reports, and documents from group and individual treatment. These documents are often included with correspondence to criminal justice authorities, and treatment providers.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared comprehensive psychosocial assessments which determined specific treatment or case management needs for individuals; and/or I have developed individualized treatment plans that included problem descriptions, goal statements, and specific clinical interventions; and/or I have written comprehensive treatment summaries for courts, community supervision agencies, or other social service organizations describing recommendations for further treatment. I have documented the results of mental health or substance use screenings; and/or I have completed draft treatment plans; and/or I have prepared intra-office memorandums; and/or I have written clinical case presentations. I have conducted psychosocial assessments which aided in determining treatment needs for individuals; and/or I have developed treatment plans; and/or I have written treatment summaries describing recommendations for further treatment; and/or I have documented clinical treatment contacts. None of the above. 6 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician conducts group and individual therapy with inmates focusing on counseling that revolves around substance use treatment and the underlying causes of a substance use disorder. He/she must learn and apply new assessment and treatment techniques and use these techniques to develop rapport and treatment goals during counseling sessions of inmates. During counseling, he/she is required to simultaneously monitor the behavior and facilitate the group process. He/she is skilled in developing individualized treatment plans for program participants.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided group/individual psychotherapy with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have conducted group and individual treatment using a cognitive-behavioral theoretical orientation; and/or I have developed and implemented individualized clinical treatment plans. I have under supervision of others, provided group or individual psychotherapy with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have implemented individualized clinical treatment plans; and/or I have provided case management in a clinical setting. I have co-facilitated group treatment with an adolescent or adult population; and/or I have provided case management in a non-clinical setting; and/or I have facilitated a psychoeducational class. None of the above. 7 The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician has extensive knowledge of theories, principles, practices and techniques of psychology and substance use treatment, along with knowledge in Medication Assisted Therapy (MAT) as it pertains to the correctional population. He/she recognizes symptoms of substance use, mental illness, or a combination of both. He/she provides comprehensive psychological services to inmates with substance use disorders to include opioid and alcohol use disorders.&nbsp; The Medication Assisted Treatment Clinician has consultative supervision for clinical decisions and peer clinical consultation with Psychology Services staff, Health Services Administrator, and medical practitioners. He/she administers eligibility and psychosocial assessments as the basis for inmate treatment plans.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated prospective individuals to determine appropriateness for admittance into a treatment program; and/or I have performed screenings for substance use or mental health services; and/or I have performed routine screenings to determine an individual’s need for support services (i.e., medical or housing services). I have conducted structured diagnostic interview under the clinical supervision of another treatment provider; and/or I have recommended provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have under the clinical supervision of another treatment provider, conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. I have performed comprehensive evaluations of people with mental health or substance use problems; and/or I have conducted structured diagnostic interviews and provided provisional mental health and substance use diagnoses using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have conducted psychosocial interviews to identify treatment goals and interventions. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).