Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience leading or supervising employees in the performance of specialty woodworking or carpentry work? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Do you have experience working with contractors as the point of contact for service work and vendors for supplies and special order materials? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Which of the following methods do you have experience using to square a ceiling, wall or room: Answer to this question is required 3,4,5 method Diagonal method Transit method Laser method None of the above 4 Which of the following door hardware do you have experience installing? Answer to this question is required Cylindrical and mortise lock sets Panic exit devise Hydraulic door closer Power assisted door opener None of the above 5 Select the items from the following list that you have experience installing. Choose all that apply. Answer to this question is required Rafters Doors (metal and wood) Windows Paneling Staircases Baseboards Molding / Trim Bookcases / Wall units / Cabinets Inlay work Studs (metal and wood) Drywall Acoustic ceilings None of the above 6 What skills do you use to curve and shape wood surfaces? Answer to this question is required Laminating Veneering Plastic Overlaying Steam Bending Grain Matching None of the Above 7 Which of the following do you have safety training in? Answer to this question is required OSHA 10 PPE Confined Space Asbestos Lead Respiratory None of the above 8 Which of the following tools do you have experience using regularly? Answer to this question is required Circular saws Hammer-drills Orbital sawzall Rotary hammers Driver/drills Portable electric band saws Routers Table saws Variable speed jig-saw Portable band saw Band saws Spiral saws Bench grinder Machine hacksaw Laser levels Machine planer Shapers Jointures None of the above 9 What tools have you used to perform precise, intricate carpentry and woodcraft work? Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill presses Sanders Mortises Dado blades Engravers / CNC None of the above 10 Select the carpentry, cabinetry, and millwork layout techniques you have performed. Answer to this question is required Measuring Cutting Bending Radial (circular) line development Parallel line development None of the above 11 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 12 What source documents and/or instructions and references have you used to ensure compliance with building codes, objectives, timeliness, and quality of workmanship? Answer to this question is required Building plans Building codes Blueprints Drawings Sketches Written instructions Work orders Specifications None of the above 13 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 14 From the following list, select the types of woodworking products you have used on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes Solid surfaces None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.