Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Planning and/or directing program management aspects of renovation and maintenance projects in the tracking of facility maintenance, preventive maintenance and/or corrective maintenance; (2) Conducting activities over construction and maintenance operations performed by contractors, including reviewing project plans, specifications for workability and facility condition assessments; (3) Managing and/or directing contract administration activities to include monitoring contractor activities through personal contact and/or review of performance data to ensure compliance with technical, financial and delivery requirements of the contract; and (4) Performing administrative supervision of employees in the performance of facility maintenance and repair work. 2 Choose the response that most accurately describes your demonstrated ability and level of experience to oversee and lead a team or work unit, make work assignments, and monitor timeliness and daily program operations. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others, to include informal relationships such as a team leader? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for, or in collaboration with, subordinates Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Interviewed job applicants for hire Made hiring or promotion recommendations or decisions Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances Recommended or implemented disciplinary actions None of the above 4 Please indicate which of the following leadership activates you have performed at work: Answer to this question is required Creating new policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Updating existing policies and/or Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). Writing reports or findings regarding investigation reports, interrogatories, or memoranda regarding significant issues, etc. Developing technical guidance or other instructional materials. Reviewing written work of others for grammar and accuracy. Writing statements of work for contracted facilities management. Writing trade or professional association publication articles. Writing graduate level or professional school thesis, practicum, or dissertation (or equivalent). None of the above 5 Which tasks have you completed on a regular and recurring basis related to project management? Answer to this question is required Established priorities among multiple, simultaneous projects Established timelines and milestones for a project Initiated projects Closed out projects Monitored project progress against a timeline or milestone schedule Made resource decisions for competing projects Assigned tasks to project members and monitored individuals` performance Resolved contractor performance issues Managed client expectations None of the above 6 Select the issues that you have resolved when managing projects. Answer to this question is required Changes to project scope Need for additional funds when budget was exhausted Negative overall project performance evaluation Unfeasible client expectations for project requirements or outcomes None of the above 7 Do you have experience using Computer Aided Facilities Management (CAFM) systems such as Maximo, TMA, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please describe your experience with CAFM systems for purchasing, work order scheduling and tracking, and preventive maintenance. Maximum length of 10000 characters. No 8 Which facilities management tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Reviewed property audit findings Coordinated repair of facilities Monitored facilities utilities consumption Arranged for the storage and distribution of furnishings None of the above 9 Select the response that best describes your experience monitoring construction work for compliance with contract specifications. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience monitoring construction work for compliance with contract specifications. I have completed coursework on techniques for monitoring construction work, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have monitored construction work for compliance with contract specifications and reported deficiencies to a senior employee. I have independently monitored construction work and requested that contractors take action to comply with contract specifications. 10 Which tasks have you performed to oversee maintenance or repairs? Answer to this question is required Surveying and inspecting facilities/machinery Determining extent of damage sustained Identifying the type of repairs required Determining the cost of repairs or maintenance None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience managing the risks associated with deferred facility/equipment maintenance? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience managing the risks associated with deferred facility/equipment maintenance. I completed education or training on this type of risk management but do not have on-the-job experience. I identified the risks of a specific deferred maintenance issue to assist others in developing a solution to manage it. I analyzed the risks of a specific deferred maintenance issue, to include impact on clients/customers. I recommended alternate solutions to manage the risks for a specific deferred maintenance issue. I prioritized the risks of multiple deferred maintenance issues and determined an approach to resolve them based on resource availability and budget projections. 12 Which interpersonal skills have you routinely applied in a work setting? Answer to this question is required Facilitating the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to staff Persuading and/or inspiring others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques Diffusing confrontational situations with people who were frustrated, argumentative, or upset Developing trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds Promoting the organization's goals, mission and values None of the above 13 Which activities have you performed to communicate orally with clients? Answer to this question is required Gathered general information in an unstructured setting Solicited specific information in a structured setting (e.g., use of scripted questions or planned topics of discussion) Explained project limitations and restrictions Provided project status updates Answered non-technical questions Responded to complaints or client concerns None of the above 14 Do you have experience interacting and briefing executive and/or other high-level decision makers? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with contract administration (i.e., developing statements of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; managing contractor project activities; monitoring contract costs, scheduling, and performance)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience with contract administration. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed contract administration duties on the job. I have performed contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities on the job, with close supervision from my supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing contract administration duties, including developing a statement of work, developing cost comparisons, managing contractor project activities as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 16 Which response best describes your highest level of experience planning and organizing work in difficult circumstances (e.g., tight deadlines, changing resources)? Answer to this question is required I have not planned or organized work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and completing my own work in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of employee`s work within my unit in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by cross-functional project teams in difficult circumstances. I have experience planning, organizing, and ensuring the completion of work performed by multiple teams in different functions under my control in difficult circumstances. 17 Which statement best represents your highest level of experience in strategic planning? Answer to this question is required I have presented and justified the goals and objectives of a program to executive management. I have defined the goals and objectives for a program. I have provided input to define the goals and objectives for a program. I completed training or education related to strategic planning, but I do not have on-the-job experience applying these techniques. I have no training, education, or experience related to strategic planning. 18 Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience conducting studies/evaluations that focused on continuous improvement. Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience studies/evaluations that focused on continuous improvement. I have completed education or training related to the continuous improvement techniques, but have not applied this knowledge at work. I have performed improvement studies/analyses and identified areas for improvement at the project level. I have recommended corrective action or programs for continuous improvement. I have planned, organized, or provided oversight for continuous improvement programs. 19 Which of the following best describes your background in developing annual and other short or long term work plans for facility repair, modifications, and improvements, including the timing and emphasis of major projects? Answer to this question is required Planned an active program of facility surveys and inspections to identify the need for repairs or renovations, security problems, fire hazards, or safety risks. Analyzed space management practices and procedures on a continuous basis; devised and recommended more efficient and economical solutions. Coordinated and implemented an occupant emergency plan and made provisions for or conducted safety training. Ensured that building modifications, repairs, or alterations complied with required codes and regulations. Developed plans, specifications, and formal requests for proposals for facility repair, renovation, and services contracts. Reviewed and inspected contract work during installation/maintenance and upon completion for compliance with contract terms and conformance to specifications of service and/or repair orders. Accepted or rejected the work. Participated in the planning of operating budgets and staffing requirements to support the operation and management of a large facility. Recommended amendments, contract deductions and cure notices. Provided supporting documentation. Initiated and/or processed requisitions and purchase orders or other procurement documents used to obtain services and equipment for an organization. None of the above. 20 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to wood crafting but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform wood crafting activities. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. 21 What skills do you use to curve and shape wood surfaces? Answer to this question is required Laminating Veneering Plastic Overlaying Steam Bending Grain Matching None of the Above 22 Select the types of Computerized Numerical Control (CNC) software you have programmed to operate computerized tools and equipment (e.g., shaper, router). Answer to this question is required AlphaCam Cabinet Vision Software based on G-Code (standardized programming language) TurboCad Deluxe EnRoute Gravostyle None of the above 23 Which tasks have you performed to ensure hazardous materials (lead paint, used stain rags, latex materials) were safely stored or disposed of? Answer to this question is required I verified that the material was compatible with the secondary storage container before I stored or disposed of it. I made sure specific materials were stored in a designated hazardous accumulation site. I ensured that non-compatible materials were kept separately. I made sure containers were tightly sealed. I followed secondary labeling requirements prior to storing/disposal. None of the above. 24 Which of the following plastering work do you have experience performing or supervising?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Flat wall plastering Fibrous plastering Plaster mold casting Ornamental carving Preservation plastering Conservation plastering Working with stucco None of the above 25 Select the elevated support products you have used, constructed, erected, and disassembled. Answer to this question is required Scaffolds (Mechanical, ground-based, rolling, stationary, ladder jack) Aerial work platforms Aluminum and wooden planks Extension ladders Swing stages Step ladders None of the above 26 For which purposes have you developed sheet metal patterns? Answer to this question is required To build ductwork To build ventilation housing To repair copper roofing To build steel doors To create metal hardware None of the above 27 Select the tasks that demonstrate your dexterity in performing sheet metal work. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Fabricated fittings including straight pieces, curved pieces, and fittings that involve irregular curves and planes. Fabricated items of varied angle or pitch and circumference. Constructed seams, joints, and edges related to sheet metal fabrication. Applied radial and parallel line development principles to pattern development and fabrication. None of the above. 28 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 28.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 29 7Choose the statement that best reflects your highest level of experience monitoring the work of contract. Answer to this question is required Answer to this question is required I do not have experience monitoring the work of contractors. I have inspected or monitored the work of contractors and provided status updates to my manager for follow-up. I have monitored, reviewed, and recommended approval/rejection of contractors work to ensure conformance with contract requirements. I have monitored, reviewed, and recommended approval/rejection of contractors work to ensure conformance with contract requirements. I have monitored, reviewed, and approved/rejected the work of contractors to ensure conformance with contract requirements. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.