Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Management Analyst communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from co-workers, potential and current system users from institutions, regional offices, Central Office, to high ranking official of the Department of Justice and other government agencies. He/she will also have frequent contact with public officials, computer software/hardware vendors, and the general public. He/she must be able to communicate in order to interact, negotiate, and persuade others on the mission and objectives of the Bureau of Prisons, Federal Prisons Industries (FPI). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have exchanged information with personnel from Department of Justice/other federal and non-federal agencies; and/or I have advised upper-management on matters relating to corporate planning, policy, and operational performance; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external contractors, private sector vendors, and various company officials; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEO), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. I have participated as a member of a taskforce or work group; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have taught training courses/seminars and other training-related topics. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prisons managers while involved in a project; and/or I have performed and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have provided guidance and advice to less experienced staff. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst will be responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, contractors, vendors, line staff and the general public. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared instructional information for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared a program review response; and/or I have revised local policy; and/or I have written a comprehensive operational review report; and/or I have assisted with writing policy or business procedures related to production, finance, procurement, sales, or quality control that detail specific functions and activities within an Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) system, or equivalent. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have assisted managers and supervisors with the development of position descriptions; and/or I have revised internal policy/operations memorandum; and/or I have conducted special studies and projects and briefed various officials and staff on corporate level operational status and policy; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have written policy or business procedures related to production, finance, procurement, sales, or quality control that detail specific functions and activities within an Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP) system, or equivalent. I have written memorandum for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandum or other correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have prepared descriptive performance log entries; and/or I have initiated personnel actions; and/or I have prepared re-designation requests. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned processes to meet or complete normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for data processing; and/or I have managed accountable data for branch managers. I have planned and implemented specific Corporate projects from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the management goals; and/or I have managed multiple projects successfully to completion; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for Executive Staff management; and/or I have organized the purchasing of resource (i.e., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions, etc.); and/or I have planned and coordinated various meetings and special projects which are designed to improve the operations and decision making process of the Bureau of Prisons or industry. I have modified processes to meet internal or external customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for the branch; and/or I have successfully met due date requirements of multiple projects; and/or I have organized and prioritized tasks for managers. None of the above. 7 The Management Analyst must be able to establish and maintain good working relationships with other staff. He/she is dependent upon staff within various divisions, branches, and sections to work with him/her in order to complete projects assigned. Therefore, it is essential to possess excellent communication skills and build relationships in order to complete tasks. He/she must develop contacts and maintain working relationships with staff at all levels at the Department of Justice, Bureau of Prisons, Federal Prisons Industries (FPI), and other Federal, state, and local entities. He/she will also be required to interact with and develop and maintain professional relationship with the private sector. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing backgrounds/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have informally resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level; and/or I have participated on a work group within an industry and Bureau of Prisons division which developed internal policy; and/or I have briefed staff within the office concerning internal operations. I have coordinated facility visits; and/or I have conducted a training seminar for peers; and/or I have chaired division meetings; and/or I have facilitated communication with involved parties to resolve internal issues; and/or I have participated in departmental meetings and presented information; and/or I have telephonically resolved discrepancies with information sources; and/or I have recognized possible inmate conflict and took corrective action before it escalated. I have chaired a joint panel to institute a nationwide program, such as a panel which established the Bureau of Prisons or industry operations; and/or I have coordinated, established, and maintained relationships with executive level agency/organization employees on complex issues; and/or I have assisted in public relations activities such as open house for outside groups; and/or I have served as member of committee or taskforce to develop and modify local programs; and/or I have participated in Executive Staff meetings and presented information in an acting capacity; and/or I have proposed alternative solutions to management problems regarding position control, budget, etc. None of the above. 8 The Management Analyst must analyze reports, surveys, data, and complex statistical problems, determine inconsistencies, and inform management of issues needing attention. He/she also utilizes automated systems to perform analytical tasks. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed detailed analyses to assure the completeness, accuracy, and currency of personnel and personnel related actions; and/or I have analyzed research and evaluation reports and made recommendations based upon the analysis; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated management information as it relates to budgetary control, personnel staffing, etc.; and/or I have directed lower level analysts or technicians in utilizing computer terminals including word processing, electronic spreadsheets, business graphic, and mainframe computer systems in order to develop or obtain specific information for task assignments. I have obtained data from national data/information sources to assist in program planning activities; and/or I have assisted in the research, analysis, and reporting of program assessments; and/or I have identified new industrial opportunities through an analysis of statistics. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP)/available information to compare operations of facilities/organizations; and/or I have employed the use of multi-variate techniques while involved in a trend study. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed industry data and made recommendations or findings utilized by senior level staff; and/or I have used a variety of resource venues to collect statistical data which was included in a major report; and/or I have analyzed results of program review data and developed trend or deficiency reports; and/or I have made a decision on which statistical analysis procedure/program to use in the examination of research data; and/or I have performed mathematical computations, and arranged resultant information in formats that facilitated review by Central Office/Corporate Management. None of the above. 9 The Management Analyst is responsible for the evaluation of the subordinate workforce. He/she will supervise subordinate employees and provide opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an agency/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have checked work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines are met; and/or I have evaluated and documented special competencies of employees in area of responsibility; and/or I have reviewed and monitored programs to make necessary adjustments as needed. I have provided feedback to subordinates on on-going projects; and/or I have held subordinate employees accountable for completing daily assignments; and/or I have prioritized own workload to ensure all deadlines are met; and/or I have trained new employees on department/unit/office procedures; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).