Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section in this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 Indicate the contract-related roles that you have held in a work setting. Answer to this question is required Contracting Officer Contract Specialist Contracting Officer`s Representative (ARCO / COR / COTR) Alternate COR (A/COR) None of the above 2 Which phases of the contracting process have you assisted? Answer to this question is required Acquisition planning Contract formation Contract negotiation Contract administration None of the above 3 Please select the response that best describes your experience in applying the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate. I have completed formal education or training in the Federal principles of Appropriations Law, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have applied the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate as a regular part of a job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have applied the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Applying the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in applying the Federal principles of Appropriations Law to determine whether planned obligations and expenditures are appropriate and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 4 From the following list, please select the activities you have performed related to the administration of programs or the management of projects. Answer to this question is required Implemented findings and conclusions resulting from a compliance review or an investigation and monitored progress. Reviewed open source or classified intelligence reports and made summary recommendations on trends and diversion possibilities. Monitored team efforts or workflow to insure program success, responding with shifts in workload and/or adjustments to operational procedures. Served as focal point or team lead on unique or sensitive compliance or enforcement matters. Generated management reports and tracking of performance measures. Trained and developed new or junior employees. None of the above. 5 From the following list of personnel security programs, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully administered / managed. Answer to this question is required Personnel Security Security Clearance Adjudication Personnel Investigations Facility / Information Access None of the above 6 I have performed the following activities to plan and organize work to meet goals and objectives: (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Prioritized multiple assignments or tasks Divided large / extended tasks into smaller components Estimated work hours required to complete tasks Estimated resource needs for specific tasks Developed and document project plans and checklists to track assignments or tasks Adjusted workload across project staff as needed Planned budget requirements for specific tasks None of the above 7 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.