Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content District of Columbia Courts Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the choice that best describes your employment in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court, or Court System). Answer to this question is required I am a court employee and have worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a full-time temporary employee (FTT) or While Actually Employed (WAE) in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System) I am a court employee and have not worked at least six months within my current division in the D.C. Courts (Court of Appeals, Superior Court or Court System). However, I am eligible because this position is in my current division. None of the above 2 Which of the following best describes your highest level of education? Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or law degree. I have a master's degree. I have a bachelor's degree. None of the above. 3 Do you have three (3) or more years of supervisory experience? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the responses that are true of your duties as a manager and/or supervisor. Answer to this question is required Develop and train staff. Assess training needs of staff. Certify time and attendance. Evaluate leave requests. Develop performance plans. Evaluate employee performance. Issue corrective actions. Interview applicants and make hiring recommendations. Nominate employees for recognition and awards. Resolve employee conflicts. None of the above. 5 Which response best describes your experience in developing budget requests and related supporting documentation? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior coworker who ensured compliance with correct procedures. This task has been a central or major part of my work. Due to my expertise in this area, I instructed other workers in the performance of this task. 6 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience developing and managing a budget for non-personnel services (supplies, printing and reproduction, equipment, travel and training, contracts)? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 7 Which strategic planning and performance measurement tasks have you performed? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required I have aligned and developed functional-area (e.g. unit or branch) tactical plans derived from division or organization strategic plans. I have set program or project operational plan objectives and tactics. I have monitored and tracked program and functional-area accomplishments. I have established and tracked program-related performance measures. I have established and monitored quality control and quality assurance processes. I have set due dates and ensured timeliness of deliverables. I have planned and adjusted work operations to meet changing requirements within available resources and with limited sacrifice of quantity or quality of work. I have prepared schedules for completion of work. I have assigned work to team members based on priorities. None of the above. 8 Which best describes your level of influence or persuasion of others to accept or implement your recommendations? Answer to this question is required I am a key resource and coach others in this area. I have influenced executive officials in exceptionally difficult situations. I have influenced executive officials in considerably difficult situations with little or no guidance. I have influenced executive officials in difficult situations with occasional guidance. I have influenced executive officials in situations with frequent guidance None of the above. 9 Which statement best describes your experience applying local, state or federal regulations or laws? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. None of the above. 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience collecting, interpreting and analyzing data to measure and improve program effectiveness or productivity? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 11 Which statement best describes your experience preparing and presenting reports to executive level managers? Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have no experience in performing this task. 12 Please select the statement below that best describes your experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations and policies in order to advise, develop and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting at a senior or executive management level. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations and policies with the intent to advise as well as develop and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting at a senior or executive management level. I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations and policies with the intent to advise as well as develop and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting at a senior or executive management level. I have four (4) to ten (10) years of experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations and policies with the intent to advise as well as develop and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting at a senior or executive management level. I have eleven (11) or more years of experience in reviewing and understanding statutes, regulations and policies with the intent to advise as well as develop and implement policies and procedures in an organizational setting at a senior or executive management level. View Vacancy Details If you have questions about the vacancies at the DC Courts, please contact the Courts’ Talent Acquisition Branch at jobs@dcsc.gov or call 202-879-0496. Employment Opportunities This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).