Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Specialized Experience:&nbsp; (For positions at GS-4 and above:): Experience in operating, supervising the operation of, or instructing in the operation of equipment related to the particular specialization for which application is made. Experience gained in the operation of equipment in a specialization directly related to the specialization may be credited through the GS-5 level. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited as specialized experience for that particular specialization through the GS-5 level. OR B. Education: One year of graduate education or 27 quarter hours of graduate education in the related field of the position. NOTE: Graduate education or an internship meets the specialized experience required above GS-5 only in those instances where it is directly related to the work of the position. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-6 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Surgical Technician coordinates the workflow by assuring day‑to‑day operations and non‑routine activities are performed in a timely manner. &nbsp; He/she also devises new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made changes, where necessary for accomplishment of day to day work; and/or I have reviewed work of peers and provided suggestions to improve their skills; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects; and/or I have developed procedures and file systems for the office. I have assisted others in gathering information from files for special projects; and/or I have assisted Supervisor by processing time and attendance sheets; and/or I have assisted others with maintaining office equipment. I have coordinated the delivery of special supplies and equipment through vendors and other resources such as community hospitals; and/or I have rotated Operating Room or Outpatient Surgical Center supplies; and/or I have identified, prepared, and sent specimens and cultures to the appropriate departments; and/or I have maintained tracking system of nursing department expenditures; and/or I have trained fellow employees (i.e., surgical technicians) on routine office procedures/methods. None of the above. 4 Surgical Technicians must be familiar with a variety of surgical equipment necessary to deliver patient care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have obtained and documented vital signs; and/or I have during surgical procedures, ensured camera equipment was available as needed by surgeon’s preference; and/or I have utilized tourniquets, as appropriate; and/or I have made materials available as per surgeon preference, such as suture materials tailored specific to the surgery. I have as directed by the physician, made specific equipment available to the surgeon and assisted as directed with equipment (i.e., craniotome, air powered drills, saws, reamers, fiberoptic endoscopes, bovie units, electrocardiogram (ECG) monitors, hemovacs, pneumatic drills, lasers, cryo units, fracture equipment); and/or I have performed oral suctioning; and/or I have assisted physician with splinting/casting; and/or I have arranged instrumentation on sterile field; and/or I have accounted for sponges, instruments and needles at the end of surgical procedure. I have assisted physician and/or nurses with minor/major surgical procedures; and/or I have applied external monitors on patients; and/or I have applied safety restraints and prepped the patient for surgery. None of the above. 5 Surgical Technicians must be able to communicate both verbally and in writing with physicians, consultant surgeons, executive staff, supervisors, managers, co-workers, inmate patients, inmate workers, and other health care providers in a health care setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed in service programs and provided on the job training for other medical surgical technicians and inmate workers; and/or I have communicated with supervisor/physician to clarify order written on patient chart; and/or I have provided clear, concise written reports concerning pertinent patient information and/or correctional/security issues; and/or I have participated in developing patient treatment plans; and/or I have served as a resource person to new staff; and/or I have reinforced patient teaching/instruction. I have instructed patients on activities of daily living; and/or I have recognized and reported change in patients physical and/or psychological condition; and/or I have responded to general inquiries from other departments; and/or I have instructed family members on how to best assist with patients care and activities; and/or I have conveyed non technical written information in logs/reports/memorandums. I have recognized and reported to superiors any behaviors/actions which might indicate a threat to security or the safety of others; and/or I have dealt with situations of verbal abuse, combative behavior, assaults, or other forms of aggression from a patient; and/or I have recognized and reported a physical or psychological change in a patient's condition requiring further assessment; and/or I have documented technical information in patient medical record. None of the above. 6 Surgical Technicians must have a practical knowledge of anatomy and physiology and a familiarity with acceptable medical words, terms and abbreviations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a second scrub in minor surgical cases; and/or I have monitored body functions intra-operatively; and/or I have applied oxygen by nasal cannula. I have reported vital signs and measurements that deviated from normal to supervisor; and/or I have monitored skin integrity of patient; and/or I have instructed staff who are not familiar with the Operating Room or Outpatient Surgical Center procedures about sterilization and assisting the surgeon during the operation. I have assisted in ambulation; and/or I have collected specimens such as stool, sputum, urine; and/or I have assisted with daily hygiene such as bathing, whirlpool, mouth care, etc. None of the above. 7 Surgical Technicians must be familiar with signs and symptoms that might indicate a change in the patient's physical and/or emotional status. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recognized patients with mental confusion; and/or I have detected memory deficit when questioning patients; and/or I have noticed signs of lethargy of patient and reported for appropriate assistance. I have recognized and reported post operative signs and symptoms; and/or I have recognized, reported, and recorded changes in patient condition such as a sudden decrease in activity level; and/or I have reported any change or inability of a patient’s urinary or bowel functions; and/or I have recognized and reported any subtle change in mental alertness. I have readily recognized, identified and reported major changes in a patient’s physical and medical condition that had been previously undetected; and/or I have under established protocols, documented and reported suspected changes in metabolic status or post operative level of consciousness to appropriate staff; and/or I have detected and reported changes in vital signs; and/or I have recognized and reported impairment of post operative wound integrity. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).