Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 Choose one answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. In addition to being in, or related to, the position being filled, this experience is at or at least equivalent to GS-7 level in the Federal service. I do not possess the one year of required specialized experience. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of full-time specialized experience at the GS-7 level related to the work of this position. This specialized experience is defined as working in a public garden, ground’s maintenance, commercial landscape or nursery setting performing gardening tasks and operating small to medium sized power operated landscape equipment which includes leaf blowers, rototillers, string trimmers and lawn mowers. Experience must also include applying chemical substances such as herbicides, insecticides, and fungicides to manage weed control and pests. I have two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree directly related to the work of the position. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 3 Which one of the following settings most closely represents where you most frequently perform gardening work in a professional capacity? Answer to this question is required Public garden, arboretum, or zoological park. Federal, state, local municipality, or university campus. Private estate or garden. Park district, country club, or golf course. Commercial operation such as a garden center or landscape business. I have coursework but no formal experience. I have no experience. 4 Which of the following types of gardens/landscapes do you have experience maintaining in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Natural gardens with a majority of native plants. Formal gardens containing sheared hedges and intricate planting arrangements. Plantings and beds in golf courses, shopping centers, apartments, or office complexes. Theme gardens such as Japanese, topiary, rose, rooftop, or aquatic gardens. Park district plantings or community parks. Vegetable gardens and/or community plots. None of the above. 5 Do you have professional experience following a custom year-long landscape maintenance program involving the installation and maintenance of seasonal plants, perennials, shrubs and turf? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following duties have you performed professionally related to turf care? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Mowing using power operated equipment. Sting trimming/stick edging. Applying fertilizer/soil amendments. Applying pesticides. Aerating. Dethatching. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements best describes your experience installing seasonal displays and/or exhibits? Answer to this question is required I have removed existing vegetation and installed seasonal flowers, perennials, or shrubs in new landscape beds. I have removed existing vegetation, amended soil, and graded and installed plant material in a new landscape bed. I have converted existing turf areas into garden beds by removing turf, amending soil, and planting annuals, perennials, and woody plants. I have installed seasonal flowers, perennials, and shrubs in existing landscape beds. I have installed seasonal flowers and perennials in existing landscape beds. I have installed seasonal flowers (annuals) in existing landscape beds. I have no experience with installing seasonal displays and/or exhibits. 8 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience performing professional snow removal? Answer to this question is required I have performed snow removal on a small scale (e.g., residential walkways, paved driveways). I have performed snow removal on a moderate scale (e.g., commercial sidewalks, parking lots). I have performed snow removal on a large scale (e.g., roadways, parking areas). I do not have experience performing snow removal tasks. 9 Which of the following settings do you have experience performing snow removal in a professional capacity as a regular part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Highly congested public areas such as college campuses, shopping centers, zoos, etc. Parking lots (full). Parking lots (empty). Roads and streets. Driveways. Sidewalks. None of the above. 10 Do you have experience maintaining water features professionally (e.g., fountains, ponds)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following cultural disease control sanitation practices do you have professional experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I regularly remove and dispose of senescent or dead plant material from garden areas. I regularly disinfect tools and equipment after use in garden areas. I regularly remove and dispose of diseased plants from garden areas. I regularly remove and dispose of infected soil from garden areas. I have done some or all of these practices (but infrequently). I have no experience. 12 Which of the following statements best describe your experience with pest management in a garden/landscape setting in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have regularly scouted for pest problems. I am certified/licensed by a government agency to apply pesticides. I have applied pesticides with a backpack sprayer. I have inventoried pesticide supplies, tracked applications, and kept detailed spray records. I regularly use bio-controls such as beneficial insects, soaps, and/or oils. I have no experience. 13 Which of the following irrigation operations and maintenance tasks have you performed professionally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I regularly set the time and duration for different zones in automated irrigation clocks. I have adjusted irrigation programming based on weather conditions. I regularly make repairs to broken heads, risers, and/or valves. I have made recommendations for irrigation system improvements for new projects or modifying existing infrastructure. I have made some basic repairs to an irrigation system. I have no experience. 14 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience evaluating plant health? Answer to this question is required I recognized symptoms that indicated a plant was under stress or in poor health and notified my supervisor for identification and resolution of the concern. I have identified specific problems related to plant health and sought guidance on resolving the problem. I independently corrected problem conditions causing poor plant health. I have provided guidance and advice to others in the identification and resolution of plant health concerns. None of the above. 15 Which of the following objectives have you achieved from applying pruning techniques to plants? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have encouraged growth (e.g., fruit/flower production, stimulate healing). I have removed diseased plant parts. I have improved structures. I have removed safety hazards. I have improved or maintained aesthetics. None of the above. 16 Which of the following practices do you have experience performing in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have pruned small trees and shrubs. I have planted balled and burlap trees and shrubs. I have planted perennials and annuals. I have created decorative container plant displays. I have established and maintained lawns and turf grass. I have no experience. 17 Which gardening concepts have you learned through coursework, training, or experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Recognizing plant abnormalities (e.g., yellow leaves). Plant life cycles (e.g., seed to mature plant reproduction). Ranges of care needs for different types of plants (e.g., variability in amount of light and water needed). Plant hardiness zones. None of the above. 18 Which documents have you read and interpreted to ensure your gardening work followed guidelines and requirements? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Landscape designs. Statements of Work. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA). Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). None of the above. 19 Which of the following responses describes your experience reading and interpreting instructions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I read and interpret instructions, specifications, and directions. I carry out instructions which involve simple decisions based on pre-established guidelines. I carry out instructions to perform simple tasks that require several steps. I ask clarifying questions when instructions or directions are unclear. I can follow simple written directions given by a supervisor or team leader on work procedures or processes. I can complete and understand routine paperwork in order to carry through work assignments such as completing or verifying standard or inventory forms legibly. None of the above. 20 Which of the following pieces of equipment do you have experience using in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Skid steer. Forklift. Compact utility loader. Chainsaw. Backpack blower. Rototiller. String trimmer. Hedge trimmer. I have no experience. 21 Which of the following equipment maintenance have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have cleaned equipment after use. I have sharpened mower blades. I have changed oil in a small engine. I have tuned a small engine. I have plugged or patched a flat tire. I have changed a damaged hydraulic line. I do not have experience maintaining equipment. 22 Which of the following snow removal equipment do you have experience using in a professional capacity? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Snow plow (truck-mounted). Skid steer with blade or rotary broom attachment. Snow blower/thrower. Salt spreader. Shovel. I have walked behind brushes. I have no experience. 23 Which types of vehicles do you have experience operating professionally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Dump truck. Pickup truck. Stakebody truck. Forklift. Skid steer tractor. Utility vehicle. Tow behind trailer less than 10,000 GVW. Tow behind trailer greater than 10,000 GVW. I have no experience. 24 What is the heaviest weight you have lifted on a regular basis while following safe work practices? Answer to this question is required 10 pounds or less. 10 pounds to 20 pounds. 20 pounds to 30 pounds. 30 pounds to 40 pounds. 40 pounds to 50 pounds. More than 50 pounds. 25 Which of the following safety practices have you performed at work? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE). I have presented safety training to others on topics related to gardening. I have assisted with the development of safety guidelines and procedures related to gardening. I have maintained safety documentation (e.g., training logs, chemical inventories). I have attended safety courses to learn safety rules, regulations, and safe work practices. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.