Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I have a combination of education and experience (as described above). I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following statements best describes your experience conducting research and identifying new technologies regarding security matters and their applications to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training conducting research and identifying new technologies regarding security matters and their applications to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities. I have completed formal education or training in conducting research and identifying new technologies regarding security matters and their applications to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience conducting research and identifying new technologies regarding security matters and their applications to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have independently conducted research and identified new technologies regarding security matters and their applications to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities as a regular part of the job (usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). I have routinely conducted research and identified new technologies regarding security matters and their applications to cultural properties, major national icons, or Federal facilities as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and/or I have been consulted by others as an expert in performing this task. I do not have any experience in this area. 3 Which of the following have you reviewed, evaluated, and performance tested? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Security search systems. Access control systems. Automated access control systems. Entry/exit inspection systems. Alarms Locks Card Readers Cameras Closed Circuit Televisions None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience regarding installations and inspections of security equipment? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have experience with the installation and inspection of security equipment. I have experience with the acquisition and inspection of equipment and supplies. I have experience with reviewing and approving equipment. I have experience with overseeing all aspects of security requirements. I do not have experience with acquisitions. 5 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education or training in providing program direction to ensure that appropriate safeguards and security information is provided to solve technical problems affecting or likely to affect physical security? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following most closely matches your level of regular and recurring experience with the development of emergency/disaster response plans and exercises? Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as an expert in developing emergency/disaster plans, policies and exercises to validate the overall effectiveness of emergency response program(s). I have developed emergency/disaster plans, policies and exercises as a regular part of my job and required assistance with only unique or highly unusual characteristics by a supervisor. I have assisted with the development of emergency/disaster plans, policies and exercises and the work I performed was reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. 7 What is your level of experience with safety operations? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing building conditions, identifying safety issues, and developing and overseeing corrections. I have experience with emergency/disaster management policies and drills for at least two of the following: earthquakes; fire drills; shelter in place drills; active shooter drills; COOP. I have extensive knowledge and experience with developing and overseeing corrective actions in response to specific safety and/or disaster issues. I have no experience with safety operations. 8 Do you have experience implementing and maintaining security measures for an organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experiences developing guidance on security polices, practices, and procedures for law enforcement? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained other so they can perform this task, or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Do you have experience administering the day-to-day technical and administrative guidance on police, security and law enforcement functions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education, or training in developing, revising, analyzing, and coordinating policies and guidance for physical security? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 12 Which of the following demonstrates your experience in planning and conducting security program reviews, assessments, and surveys and analyzing the findings? Answer to this question is required I have conducted security reviews/audits and risk analyses and developed security plans. I have conducted cyber security and safeguards surveys or inspections. I have conducted cyber security and safeguarded self-assessments. I have not had any involvement with security systems evaluations. 13 From the list below, select the response(s) that describe(s) the types of documents you have written. Answer to this question is required I have developed Continuity of Operations (COOP), Continuity of Government (COG), or other similar plans. I have developed and managed incident reports. I have assisted with developing standard operating procedures. I have assisted with policy guidance. I have assisted with analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives. I have assisted with option papers/decision memos. I have assisted evaluating performance measures. I have assisted implementing strategic plans. I have reviewed operational planning documents. None of the above. 14 Which of the following security areas have you either directly worked in or supervised/led? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Physical security. Personnel security. Classification/declassification. Operations security. Emergency preparedness. Law enforcement programs. Fire operation programs. Foreign ownership, control, or influence program. Information security. Automation (ADP)/computer security. Facility clearance approval and registration. None of the above. Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have an LL.M., related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I have a combination of education and experience (as described above). I do not meet the requirements as described. 2 Do you have experience with performing the following duties: managing and overseeing security programs and equipment, overseeing the installation of systems and providing technical advice to management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following have you reviewed regarding the effectiveness of safeguards and security programs? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assessed vulnerabilities. I have conducted field inspections. I have conducted field evaluations. I have conducted performance testing. I have reviewed performance indices. I have recommended modifications to existing programs. None of the above. 4 Which of the following statements best indicates your knowledge of state-of-the-art security equipment and devices utilized in electronic security, intrusion detection, access control, CCTV, communication, security monitoring and control, and large integrated security systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education, or training with these systems and measures. I have completed formal education or training on implementing these systems and measures. I have experience implementing or recommending these measures or systems under supervision. I have independently implemented or recommended these systems or measures. I am considered my agency’s technical authority on state-of-the-art security equipment and devices utilized in electronic security, intrusion detection, access control, CCTV, communication, security monitoring and control, and large integrated security systems. 5 Do you have experience developing and organizing emergency preparedness plans for government agencies and/or organizations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following most closely matches your level of regular and recurring experience with continuity of operations (COOP), contingency / consequence management, and emergency operations procedures? Answer to this question is required I am regularly consulted as an expert with continuity of operations (COOP), contingency/consequence management, and emergency operations procedures. I have developed procedures and guidelines in continuity of operations (COOP), contingency/consequence management, and emergency operations procedures as a regular part of my job and required assistance with only unique or highly unusual characteristics by a supervisor or senior employee. I have assisted with the development of procedures and guidelines related to continuity operations. The work I performed was reviewed by a supervisor or senior employee. None of the above. 7 Select the areas in which you have experience working with groups to make decisions. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Emergency Preparedness Emergency Operations Continuity of Operations (COOP) planning COOP notification or Activation Contingency programs Relocation programs None of the above 8 From the list below, select the statement(s) that best describe(s) the areas in which you have experience creating and executing assessment, data collection, and analysis plans for security programs. Answer to this question is required I have experience creating and executing assessment, data collection and analysis plans for programs in the area of policy or regulation. I have experience creating and executing assessment, data collection and analysis plans for programs in the area of Process Improvement. I have experience creating and executing assessment, data collection and analysis plans for programs in the area of business cases. I have experience creating and executing assessment, data collection and analysis plans for programs in the area of pilot programs. None of the above 9 Which of the following demonstrates your ability to interact effectively within an organization and with the security representatives at other entities (ex: museums, site offices, etc.)? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided advice on matters relating to the physical security/security systems program. I have mastered oral and written communication techniques in order to explain and defend complex physical security/security systems concepts. I have interpreted guidelines dealing directly with physical security/security systems issues. I have worked with representatives as a regular part of my job. I have worked with other site offices and/or building as a regular part of my job. None of the above. 10 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education, or training in responding to senior management requests and inquiries regarding security matters? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Have you briefed a senior official (organization or agency leadership) on emergency preparedness or security operations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Select the statement(s) that best describe(s) your experience leading and creating policy recommendations. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Resolved routine issues Made program decisions Negotiated significant issues Policy interpretations Persuaded others to accept new technology concepts Prepared guidance related to Emergency Management operations Prepared guidance related to Public Safety Prepared position papers Explained program policies None of the above 13 Which of the following security areas have you either directly worked in or supervised/led? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Physical security. Personnel security. Classification/declassification. Operations security. Emergency preparedness. Law enforcement programs. Fire operation programs. Foreign ownership, control, or influence program. Information security. Automation (ADP)/computer security. Facility clearance approval and registration. None of the above. 14 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education, or training with overseeing, developing, revising, analyzing, and coordinating policies and guidance for physical security? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following demonstrates your experience leading the planning and conducting security program reviews, assessments, and surveys and analyzing the findings? Answer to this question is required I have conducted security reviews/audits and risk analyses and developed security plans. I have conducted cyber security and safeguards surveys or inspections. I have conducted cyber security and safeguarded self-assessments. I have not had any involvement with security systems evaluations. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.