Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your experience in creating and managing Websites and Web pages for a museum, education or research institution, or comparable organization? Answer to this question is required I have written Website content for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have edited Website content written by others for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have managed the development of a new Website for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have built a Website using standard development tools for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have managed the overall institutional Web presence for a museum or comparable educational institution. I have no education, training or experience creating and managing organization websites or webpages. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience in using digital audio and video editing, web authoring, and development tools to create and design complex interactive content for web projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience in complex interactive projects as the member of a team, using programs and tools to work on specific aspects of the projects as assigned to me by others. I have experience in complex interactive projects as the member of a team, holding responsibility for creating and designing broad components of the project as assigned to me by others. I have experience in complex interactive projects in which I held responsibility for creating and designing the entire project myself. I have experience in complex interactive projects in which I held responsibility for overseeing a team of people creating and designing the entire project. None of the above. 4 Which of the following best describes your level of experience with serving in a technical role within a project team? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have experience serving a technical role as a member of a project team, working on specific tasks as assigned to me by others. I have experience serving a technical role as a member of a project team, with responsibility for broad components of the project as assigned to me by others. I have experience in a technical role in which I held responsibility for overseeing a project team. 5 Select the statement that best describes your ability to serve as a resource and technical consultant to others Answer to this question is required I have worked largely independently and not provided advice or consultation to others. I have shared technical expertise with members of my immediate technical group. I am considered to be a technical expert and am routinely called upon to advise or provide consultation to others both within and outside of my organization. 6 Which of the following statements reflect your experience interpreting and applying established institutional design guidelines for print and electronic media? Answer to this question is required I have experience interpreting and applying established institutional design guidelines for print and electronic media to develop graphics for a cultural institution. I have experience interpreting and applying established institutional design guidelines for print and electronic media to develop graphics for organizations that were not any kind of cultural institution. I have not interpreted and applied established institutional design guidelines for print and electronic media. 7 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with creating and editing digital images? Answer to this question is required I am very experienced and have independently created custom graphics, e.g. buttons, logos, or icons using layered image files I am moderately experienced, in that I have not independently created layered images, but can open and make changes to them I have some experience and can crop & re-size images, but have not used layered image files None of the above 8 Which of the following describes your experience using an email marketing software (EMS) program such as MailChimp to format and distribute marketing materials? (Choose one). Answer to this question is required I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience using digital analytics tools? Answer to this question is required I have no on the job experience tracking data and trends using Google Analytics. I have on the job experience tracking data and trends using Google Analytics. I have on the job experience tracking data and trends using Google Analytics and similar analytics tools. I have on the job experience tracking data and trends using Google Analytics and similar analytics tools, including social media analytics. I have on the job experience tracking data, trends, and calculating custom metrics using Google Analytics and similar analytics tools. I have on the job experience data, trends, and calculating custom metrics using Google Analytics and similar analytics tools, including social media analytics. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience using web analytics and reporting tools to extract and analyze data, and communicating insights from the analyses? Answer to this question is required I have daily work experience with web analytics, including data gathering, analysis, and reporting in both technical reports and high-level summaries for non-technical staff. I have weekly work experience with web analytics, including data gathering, analysis, and reporting. I have monthly or less frequent work experience with web analytics, including data gathering, analysis, and reporting. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience advising non-technical staff users on software and systems related to web content management? Answer to this question is required I have daily work experience advising non-technical staff on system and software requirements and helping to coordinate content enhancement projects, ensuring design and formatting standards are met, and helping to diagnose problems. I have weekly work experience advising non-technical staff on system and software requirements and helping to coordinate content enhancement projects, ensuring design and formatting standards are met. I have monthly or less frequent work experience advising non-technical staff on system and software requirements and helps coordinate content enhancement projects. I do not have related experience. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.