Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a carpenter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to carpentry but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform carpentry activities. I have independently performed carpentry activities. None of the above. 4 Do you have experience constructing framing, benches, partitions, frames and/or tables? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 From the following list, select the types of woodworking products you have used on a regular and recurring basis. Answer to this question is required Hardwoods Softwoods Plywood Veneers Wood substitutes Solid surfaces None of the above 6 Choose the statements that demonstrate your ability to interpret woodworking instructions. Answer to this question is required Read and comprehended blueprints, sketches, building plans and complex or incomplete instructions that required extensive knowledge of woodworking terms and procedures. Developed modifications to instructions and specifications on the basis of practical woodworking experience. Interpreted complicated and unclear drawings and technical information for other workers. Interpreted and applied building plans, blueprints, and sketches in the installation, modification, and repair of wood structures and articles. Followed drawings, instructions, building plans, and other references in making repairs and installations of wooden materials in commercial and industrial facilities. None of the above. 7 Have you followed instructions to assemble and disassemble scaffolding? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the tasks that describe your experience in measurement and lay out when performing wood work. Answer to this question is required Planned and laid out carpentry work using complex instructions, blueprints, specifications, sketches, drawings, building codes, and work orders. Used shop mathematics to plant, compute, and lay out complex and exact projects with features such as arcs, tangents, and circles. Used plumb, square, and level tools to ensure proper measurement. Determined work sequences and types of lumber and special related materials needed to complete assigned projects. Determined the proper grade, size, and type of lumber and/or wood substitute materials required and the type of tools to use for the job. Evaluated problems and determined how and/or what repairs to make. None of the above. 9 Select all&nbsp;of the following hand and power tools in which you have experience operating skillfully: Answer to this question is required Hammers Hand Saws Drills Planes Routers Screwdrivers Power Nailers Glue Guns Power Saws Power Sanders None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.