Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the grade 13 level in the Federal service as described below: Answer to this question is required Yes No For this position, Specialized experience is defined as experience as a lead designer, developer, tester, and maintenance manager of internet-related systems, web-based tools, and related software and in developing and applying policy, procedures, and guidance for systems, tools, and software. In addition to meeting the specialized experience, your application package, assessment and structured interview must also demonstrate the following IT-related competencies: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. 2 Please cross reference with your resume by providing the date (month & year), position held, and the name of the company where you performed this work. If this was a Federal position, please provide the name of the agency and the title, series, and grade of the position. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 8 I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 I understand that in order to be considered non-competitively I must include a copy of my SF-50.&nbsp;The SF-50 must show the highest grade level or full performance level I have attained competitively on a permanent basis, and the grade must be equivalent to or higher than the grade for which I am applying.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).