Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Experience providing a variety of services to the occupants of commercial buildings including supporting the daily operations of the buildings. (2) Experience tracking and maintaining supply and equipment levels and/or conducting and maintaining inventories. (3) Experience receiving and screening telephone calls relative to activities of an office. (4) Experience initiating and routing work orders using an automated system and tracking status of service requests.&nbsp; No 2 Which office file and system maintenance tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Filed and maintained documents in an existing system. Prepared folders for filing according to guidelines. Modified or suggested changes to existing systems. Created new systems. Supervised others in maintaining office information systems. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience providing information to customers? Answer to this question is required I have responded to inquiries and questions about the functions and locations of an organization and its employees. I have answered general questions related to the functions of an office and/or performed follow-up work of a routine nature with members of the general public. I have answered general questions related to the functions of an office. I have some experience, education, and/or training but less than the levels described. None of the above 4 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience resolving customer service problems. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience resolving customer service problems. I have resolved customer service problems by explaining policy to customers. I offered customers alternative solutions within policy limitations to resolve problems. I have trained or guided others in the resolution of customer problems. 5 Which of the following documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Office policies/procedures Expense summaries Justifications for supply/equipment requests Supply orders Email replies to customers Memorandums Statements of Work Market Research Independent Government Cost Estimates Technical Acceptance None of the Above 6 Which of the following activities have you performed to ensure the accuracy of information? Answer to this question is required Fact-checked materials Performed research to update materials Proof-read materials Gathered information to create new materials Contacted subject-matter experts None of the above 7 Which tasks have you performed to complete purchase requests? Answer to this question is required Researched products Created item descriptions Estimated cost Suggested product source Provided receiving location and point of contact Verified funding source None of the above 8 I have communicated verbally with the following individuals and/or groups on a recurring or as needed basis. Answer to this question is required Supervisors Co-workers in my immediate work unit Co-workers in my overall organization Technical experts in my organization The general public None of the above 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience independently using a computerized work order system to manage assigned work responsibilities. Answer to this question is required I tracked the status of computerized work orders to prioritize jobs and monitor systems for problems. I created and updated computerized work orders to document the work performed by other employees. I retrieved computerized work orders created by others to document the work I performed. I printed paper copies of computerized work orders that were created by others to perform my work. I have not used a computerized work order system. 10 To which types of individuals have you provided customer services (e.g., answering inquiries)? Answer to this question is required High-profile individuals (e.g., members of congress, celebrities) Administrative staff Members of the general public/constituents Shop workers (e.g., electricians, masons, plumbers) Peers/co-workers None of the above 11 Which tasks have you performed to maintain supplies and equipment for an office? Answer to this question is required Identified outdated equipment Researched new equipment Requested replacement equipment Monitored supply levels Monitored supply usage rates Ordered supplies Inventoried supplies and equipment None of the above 12 Choose the statement that best describes your background associated with Workers' Compensation Claims. Answer to this question is required I have assisted supervisors and injured employees in the completion of Workers' Compensation forms, and have coordinated claims with Employee Relations managers. I am familiar with a variety of Workers' Compensation terminology, resource materials, forms, and reports typically used by senior staff. I have a basic understanding of the Workers' Compensation Claims process. I am not familiar with the Workers' Compensation Claims process; however, I have performed similar administrative support in an office environment. None of the above 13 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducting inventory of stock. Answer to this question is required I have not participated in stock inventory. I have counted and recorded the quantity of items. I have identified misplaced items during an inventory. I have checked inventory discrepancies against records to identify errors. 14 Which computer applications do you have experience using? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Powerpoint Microsoft Access Adobe Acrobat Professional Maximo Inventory Control Financial Management Systems None of the above 15 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 15.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.