Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience leading employees who perform hazardous material abatement work operations? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience leading this type of employee. I completed training or education related to leadership skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team role, I directed hazard abatement work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have led this type of employee in hazard abatement work assignments (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 2 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience installing, maintaining, and removing insulation materials? Answer to this question is required I have installed, maintained, and removed insulation materials under close supervision. I have independently installed, maintained, and removed insulation materials. I have led and/or trained others on the installation, maintenance, and removal of insulation materials. None of the above. 3 Which administrative tasks have you performed related to supervising others? Answer to this question is required Set performance goals for or in collaboration with subordinates Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Made promotion decisions Interviewed job applicants for hire Reviewed and approved/disapproved leave requests Tracked leave usage Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Oversaw on the job training of subordinates Resolved informal complaints and grievances None of the above 4 Do you have experience leading or supervising workers who were installing, maintaining, or removing insulation? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do you have Asbestos Abatement Certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Do you have a current confined space certification? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of an insulation worker? Answer to this question is required I have provided assistance to journeymen performing insulation work such as gathering needed materials/tools to complete a project and cleaning up areas. I have performed insulations for structures with flat, square, or cylindrical surfaces, straight runs, and regular curves (e.g., pipes, boilers, ducts). I have performed insulations for structures with irregular shaped surfaces (e.g., turbines, heaters, valves). I have performed finishing work to ensure exposed materials visually match the environment and are aesthetically pleasing. None of the above 8 Do you have experience removing and disposing of hazardous materials, such as asbestos and lead? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience identifying insulation materials with the correct thickness and density specified for a project? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Select the structures on which you have independently installed insulation materials. (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Cold pipes Hot pipes Boilers Tanks Ducts Strainers Chillers Air handlers Pumps None of the above 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience taking precise measurements? Answer to this question is required I have measured flat and square surfaces. I have measured cylindrical and regularly curved surfaces. I have measured objects with irregular dimensions (e.g., valves, flanges). None of the above. 12 Select the mathematical calculations you have computed to measure and lay out insulation work. Answer to this question is required Inside diameter (ID) Outside diameter (OD) Circumference Square feet Cubic feet Length or linear run None of the above 13 Select the hand tools you have used to install insulation. Answer to this question is required Scissor Divider Roller Notcher Saw (i.e., hand saw, pruning saw) Trowel None of the above 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.