Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience climbing trees from 40 to 120 feet following safety procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you possess a valid, unexpired pesticide applicator's license in DC Categories 3A, 3B, or 3C or another state's equivalent?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the types of safety training you have completed. Answer to this question is required Aerial rescue Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) Aerial lift Rigging Tree climbing Chainsaw operation/safety Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) use None of the above 4 Select the types of ladders you have used to perform work assignments. Answer to this question is required Extension ladder (e.g.,15 to 20 feet) Orchard ladder (e.g., 12 foot) A-frame/step ladder (e.g., 8-10 feet) None of the above 5 Select the hardware and materials you have used for cabling and bracing trees. Answer to this question is required Eye bolts Lag bolts Nuts Washers Dead-end grips Thimbles None of the above 6 Select the equipment you have operated to perform tree care assignments. Answer to this question is required Stump grinder Wood chipper Tractor Skid Steer loader (e.g., Bobcat) Forklift Aerial lift/bucket truck None of the above 7 Select the power tools you have operated. Answer to this question is required Small chain saws (e.g., 14 inch bar) Large chain saws (e.g., 6 foot bar) Hedge trimmer Power pole saw Reciprocating saw None of the above 8 Select the climbing equipment and tools you have used. Answer to this question is required Saddle Carabineer Harness Snaps (while working aloft) Rigging systems (e.g., pulleys and blocks) None of the above 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed independently? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Performed routine fertilization, watering and aeration of trees and shrubs. Removed dead, diseased, damaged or fallen trees. Pruned trees and/or ornamental shrubs to obtain optimum structure and health. Cut trees and tree limbs to promote health and growth. Planted and transplanted trees. I have not performed any of the above tasks to care for trees. 10 Do you have experience twisting, bending, and operating tools (e.g., chain saws) while suspended in a tree higher than 60 feet? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience using IPM techniques to treat tree disease/pests? Answer to this question is required I do not have education/training or experience using IPM techniques to treat trees. I have completed education or training on using IPM treatments but have not yet applied it on the job. I have applied chemical and biological treatments to trees following instructions from senior workers. I have selected the appropriate IPM treatment for the diagnosed issue and provided instructions to others on techniques. 12 Select the types of trees you have planted, grown and maintained in a public setting. Answer to this question is required Mid-Atlantic native Flowering ornamental Tropical Sub-tropical Memorial or historically significant trees None of the above 13 Select the material you have applied to trees. Answer to this question is required Growth regulator (e.g., Cambistat) Fertilizers Pesticides Fungicides Beneficial biological None of the above 14 Select the types of knots you have tied independently. Answer to this question is required Prusik knot Running bowline Clove Hitch Taut-line hitch Blake's hitch Figure eight Square knot None of the above 15 What duties have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Examined trees to assess their health, risk and to determine treatment. Climbed trees on a regular basis to perform assessment and pruning. Utilize ropes and harnesses on a regular basis according to appropriate standards. Sprayed and dusted trees to control insects and disease. Practiced Integrated Pest Management (IPM) techniques. Felled diseased trees, ground out stumps and removed material. Planted and transplanted trees. None of the above. 16 Select the pruning techniques you have utilized. (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Crown thinning Crown cleaning Crown raising Crown reduction Crown restoration None of the above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.