Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the principles, concepts, and techniques of conservation treatment. ** Responsible for all aspects of conservation treatment and preventive conservation actions on a broad range of objects held across the Library's special collections. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) assessed and examined a variety of collections to determine preservation needs, 2) established and developed written and photographic documentation for all phases of treatment, 3) performed treatment and housing of collections items, 4) implemented storage and housing options, 5) provided guidance on conservation best practices, 6) performed a wide variety of chemical tests and analytical techniques, 7) assisted in the development of conservation treatment techniques, and 8) interpreted and incorporated results of testing and analysis in condition reports and treatment plans. Answer to this question is required Independently planned and conducted a range of conservation activities and performed ALL of the above tasks. Independently planned and conducted a range of conservation activities and performed SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above tasks. Independently planned and conducted a range of conservation activities and performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to research and analyze collections and materials to carry out conservation treatment and preventive conservation measures. ** Performed analysis and research of collections. In doing so, 1) conducted advanced research into new conservation methods, tools, and materials to enhance current preservation techniques, 2) assessed collection materials using an understanding of the structure, materials, and evidence of technology or creation of collection items, 3) performed a wide variety of chemical tests and analytical techniques, 4) interpreted and incorporated analysis results, and 5) analyzed gaps in current conservation protocols and developed new solutions to address the challenges. Answer to this question is required Collected, analyzed, and interpreted information relating to complex conservation treatments and/or preventive conservation measures to meet collection needs. Developed, coordinated, and implemented conservation strategies or solutions. This includes performing ALL of the following duties listed above. Collected, analyzed, and interpreted information relating to conservation treatment and/or collection needs in order to coordinate and implement conservation strategies or solutions. This includes performing THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the following duties listed above. Analyzed and organized information relating to collection needs in order to implement conservation strategies or solutions. This includes performing TWO (2) of the following duties listed above. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide consultation, outreach, and liaison services. Provided consultation and liaison services to share information with people inside and outside the organization on conservation/preservation treatment methods, preservation policies, and project strategies. Worked collaboratively with stakeholders to prioritize projects carefully weighing collection use, collection value, and risk to the collections. Worked with curatorial and research staff to develop long-term preservation strategies, taking into consideration environmental factors and future use of the materials. Provided guidance, advice, and general input regarding a wide variety of issues. Answer to this question is required Developed contacts to establish and maintain cooperative work relationships with individuals inside and outside the organization, recommended changes in procedures or workflows and explained information to groups and individuals with varying levels of understanding or knowledge of the subject. Maintained contacts and/or cooperative work relationships, recommended changes in procedures or workflows to others, and explained technical information to individuals or groups. Maintained contacts or cooperative work relationships and presented information to groups and individuals with a similar understanding of the subject. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote, reviewed, and edited a variety of professional/technical documents related to conservation or preservation actions, including: 1) condition assessment or survey reports, 2) memoranda and other correspondence, 3) conservation or preservation plans (including examination and condition reports, treatment proposals, and treatment reports), 4) collection analysis and research results, 5) policies and procedures in the area of preservation or conservation, 6) detailed reports on project outcomes, preservation efforts, and data analysis, 7) research findings for publication, contributing to the professional conservation community. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote, reviewed, and edited ALL of the above documents related to conservation treatment, collection surveys, research or other preservation actions. Independently wrote, reviewed, and edited FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents related to conservation treatment, collection surveys, research, or other preservation actions. Independently wrote, reviewed, and edited FOUR (4) of the above documents related to conservation treatment, collection surveys, research, or other preservation actions. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide training. Provided training and instruction on conservation and preservation principles and techniques. In doing so, 1) developed workshops and/or provided training for staff, interns, and/or external conservation or library professionals, 2) developed and delivered training programs, plans, manuals, web pages, or instructional aids, 3) designed course content, materials, and techniques, 4) conducted orientation and training, 5) provided information about preservation and conservation by supporting laboratory tours, giving demonstrations, and answering inquiries, and 6) presented information through different means including professional conferences, research journals, workshops, or online media. Answer to this question is required Conducted training and developed training plans, teaching others how to perform library tasks related to area of expertise. This includes performing ALL of the ABOVE activities. Conducted training and developed training plans, teaching others how to perform library tasks related to area of expertise. This includes performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Conducted training and developed training plans, teaching others how to perform library tasks related to area of expertise. This includes performing TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).