Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose those items that accurately describe your work experience: Answer to this question is required I have planned complex mechanical system repairs. I have interpreted construction blueprints. I have carried out HVAC repairs and installations using complex manufacturer instructions and specifications. I have completed the repair of a complex HVAC system on my own, either by experience or by using instructions from a manual or web site. I have completed the repair of a complex HVAC system with substantial help of a colleague, supervisor, or contractor, using instructions from a manual or web site. None of the above statements accurately describes my work experience. 3 Which systems have you installed and/or maintained, with or without supervision? Answer to this question is required Mechanical systems Utility systems Sewage ejector systems Pneumatic air systems Vacuum pumps Fire pumps Sump pumps Centrifugal chillers Centrifugal pumps Electronic control systems Variable frequency drives (VFD) Variable air volume (VAV) dampers Digital Controls Building Automation Systems (BAS) None of the above systems 4 Which of the following energy conservation measures (ECM) have you designed as a part of a construction project or overseen in your place of employment? Answer to this question is required Adjusted HVAC schedules to match occupancy schedules Checked boiler water chemistry Checked for ways to control solar gain to reduce the cooling load on buildings, including cool roofs or solar shading on windows Checked/adjusted combustion efficiency of gas-fired equipment Conducted boiler efficiency tests Educated employees on building systems and energy efficiency measures Inspected/repaired condensate return equipment Inspected/replaced steam coils and traps Installed a desiccant dehumidification system Installed energy-efficient lighting and occupancy sensors Installed LED exit signs Installed meters on boiler system make-up lines and blowdoen lines to detect leaks Installed revolving doors Isolated non-essential distribution piping Located/repaired steam leaks Lowered setback temperatures Made a business case for lower thermostat settings, that was later implemented Made a business case for new kinds of insulation, that was later implemented Minimized boiler blowdown Minimized de-aerator steam venting Minimized the use of gas-fired refrigeration equipment Minimized the use of outside air for process ventilation Optimized boiler loading Optimized combustion efficiency Optimized morning warm up and night setback controls Optimized steam plant heat balance I have not performed any of the above measures 5 Which of the following building automation systems-related tasks have you performed as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Troubleshooting electronic control devices Troubleshooting electric control devices Troubleshooting pneumatic control devices Calibrating electronic control devices Calibrating electric control devices Calibrating pneumatic control devices Generating BAS alarm and operator reports Troubleshooting floor level and/or building level networks Reviewing automated BAS sequences of operations None of the above 6 Indicate those activities you have undertaken for your employer. Answer to this question is required I have prepared scopes of work for potential contractor bids. I have written or led project justifications. I have prepared funding requests for employer purchases exceeding $250,000. I have successfully managed a project schedule and budget of at least $250,000, from inception through completion. None of these statements describes activities I have undertaken. 7 I have been asked to project maintenance or repair program costs, to be used by others to formulate budget requests. Answer to this question is required True False 8 Have you been responsible for overseeing the work of a service contractor on behalf of your employer? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Have you ever been a certified contracting officer's technical representative (COTR) or contracting officer's representative (COR)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Indicate which statements are accurate, as applied to your work experience.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have prepared written reports summarizing my work, for submission to my supervisor. I have prepared briefing materials on subjects of interest to my supervisor. I have delivered oral presentations to internal (within my employer/workplace) audiences. I have delivered oral presentations to external (outside my employer/workplace) audiences. None of these statements are accurate, as applied to my work experience. 11 From the list below, please choose those statements that describes your experience&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have provided administrative supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinates work for accuracy and completeness. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees and held them accountable. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employee. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees, and planned to meet those needs. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from subordinate employees. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 12 Engineering surveys involve determining the precise position of points on the Earth's surface.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False 13 A construction survey is considered an engineering survey.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True False View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.