Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer Grade: 11 1 [30210] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-11 position. Answer to this question is required I possess one year of specialized experience matching what is described in the vacancy announcement. This matching experience is well described in my resume. I possess three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application. I possess a combination of graduate level education, beyond the second full year of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement, that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 [52507] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience as it applies to qualifying for the this Social Science related position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in behavioral or social science (or related) at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I possess four years of behavioral or social science experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge equivalent to a major in the behavioral or social sciences fields. This experience is described in detail in my resume. I possess a combination of education and specialized experience in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline as described in the vacancy announcement. For verification of the education, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. My experience is described in detail in my resume. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 3 [9144] Select the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience as it applies to qualifying for the Research Psychologist. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in psychology at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I possess four years of behavioral or social science experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge equivalent to a major in the behavioral or social sciences fields. This experience is described in detail in my resume. I possess a combination of education and specialized experience in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline as described in the vacancy announcement. For verification of the education, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. My experience is described in detail in my resume. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 4 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 [74502] In approximately 500 words or less, describe your academic background and hands-on experience applying research principles to answer theoretical and real-world problems. Specifically address&nbsp;how you have used Problem Identification, Countermeasure/ Intervention Development, and&nbsp;Evaluation Research to address behavior change. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 4.2 [74503] In approximately 500 words or less, describe your experience executing a research study involving Problem Identification, Countermeasure/Intervention Development, or Evaluation Research. In your response, detail your specific responsibilities for data collection, task coordination, or resource management, as well as the statistical or epidemiological data analyses you performed (including the specific software and methodologies used). Finally, describe how&nbsp; you communicated the study's findings through technical reports, briefings, or presentations to various audiences (e.g., peers, managers, or stakeholders). Maximum length of 3500 characters. 4.3 [74504] In approximately 500 words or less, describe your experience in communicating findings from foundational and applied&nbsp;research, including authoring reports, delivering lectures, and presenting them to various&nbsp;audiences (peers, stakeholders, managers, senior leaders). Maximum length of 3500 characters. No Grade: 12 1 [341] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-12 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [52507] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience as it applies to qualifying for the this Social Science related position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in behavioral or social science (or related) at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I possess four years of behavioral or social science experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge equivalent to a major in the behavioral or social sciences fields. This experience is described in detail in my resume. I possess a combination of education and specialized experience in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline as described in the vacancy announcement. For verification of the education, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. My experience is described in detail in my resume. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 3 [9144] Select the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience as it applies to qualifying for the Research Psychologist. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in psychology at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I possess four years of behavioral or social science experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge equivalent to a major in the behavioral or social sciences fields. This experience is described in detail in my resume. I possess a combination of education and specialized experience in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline as described in the vacancy announcement. For verification of the education, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. My experience is described in detail in my resume. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 4 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 [74505] In approximately 500 words or less, describe how you have independently applied behavioral science, human factors, or public health theories to at least one of the critical phases of the research&nbsp;lifecycle&mdash;Problem Identification, Countermeasure/ Intervention Development, and Evaluation&nbsp;Research&mdash;in field or applied settings. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 4.2 [74506] In approximately 500 words or less, describe a complex research project (involving Problem Identification, Countermeasure/ Intervention Development, or Evaluation Research) where you were responsible for the study's execution, resource management, and product publication or release. In your response, detail how you managed complex datasets and selected and performed advanced statistical analyses to solve the problem. Additionally, detail how you identified and resolved critical methodological or operational obstacles&mdash;such as navigating State or Federal operational constraints (e.g., Statement of Work [SOW], contract requirements, scope creep)&mdash;to ensure the project remained scientifically sound. Finally, explain how you translated the results into real-world applications that directly advance the agency&rsquo;s mission. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 4.3 [74507] In approximately 500 words or less, describe your experience communicating findings to managers and stakeholder&nbsp;groups. Detail authoring technical reports for agency-level or peer review and delivering&nbsp;briefings regarding Problem Identification, Countermeasures/Interventions, or Evaluation results. Maximum length of 3500 characters. No Grade: 13 1 [342] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [52507] Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience as it applies to qualifying for the this Social Science related position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in behavioral or social science (or related) at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I possess four years of behavioral or social science experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge equivalent to a major in the behavioral or social sciences fields. This experience is described in detail in my resume. I possess a combination of education and specialized experience in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline as described in the vacancy announcement. For verification of the education, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. My experience is described in detail in my resume. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 3 [9144] Select the statement that best describes your education and specialized experience as it applies to qualifying for the Research Psychologist. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in psychology at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I have successfully completed a bachelor`s or higher degree in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline at an accredited college or university. For verification, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. I possess four years of behavioral or social science experience that demonstrate that I have acquired knowledge equivalent to a major in the behavioral or social sciences fields. This experience is described in detail in my resume. I possess a combination of education and specialized experience in behavioral science, social science, or a related discipline as described in the vacancy announcement. For verification of the education, I will submit a copy of my transcripts. My experience is described in detail in my resume. I do not meet any of the education or experience requirements as described above. 4 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 [74508] In approximately 500 words or less, describe a project where you applied behavioral science theories to change road-user behaviors (e.g., impaired driving, bicycle safety, speeding). Your experience&nbsp;should highlight your involvement in at least one critical phase of the research lifecycle, either&nbsp;Problem Identification, Countermeasure/Intervention Development, and Evaluation Research. Maximum length of 3500 characters. 4.2 [74509] In 500 words or less, describe a major project (involving Problem Identification, Countermeasure/Intervention Development, or Evaluation Research) where you served as the primary lead with full project autonomy over a multi-disciplinary traffic safety research study to determine program effectiveness or safety impact. In your response, detail how you selected and performed advanced statistical analyses to evaluate the project, and how you communicated the real-world implications of your findings to various audiences. Additionally, describe your experience managing government research contracts as a Contracting Officer&rsquo;s Representative or project manager, specifically explaining how you navigated Federal or State operational constraints (e.g., Statement of Work, contract constraints, scope creep) to ensure the study remained scientifically sound. Conclude by illustrating how you translated the results into meaningful, real-world impacts aligned with the agency&rsquo;s mission.&nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. 4.3 [74510]&nbsp;In approximately 500 words or less, describe your experience communicating traffic safety findings related to problem identification, countermeasures, or evaluation results. Detail your experience authoring technical reports for agency or peer review, and delivering briefings, lectures, or presentations to various audiences, including peers, managers, senior leaders, and external stakeholders. &nbsp; Maximum length of 3500 characters. No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).