Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience repairing decorative plaster work (e.g., medallions, cornices)? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience plastering surfaces. Answer to this question is required I have independently repaired decorative plaster work (e.g., rosettes, medallions) or created custom molds. I have independently repaired plaster walls and ceilings using a three-coat plaster process. I have assisted a plasterer by performing demolition, mixing plaster, or applying scratch coat. I have assisted with a construction project by setting up drop cloths, retrieving materials, or constructing plastic walls (e.g., zip walls) to contain dust. None of the above. 3 Which decorative items have you created with plaster? Answer to this question is required Baseboards Cornices Medallions Rosettes Replacement pieces for damaged statues / sculptures None of the above 4 Do you have experience leveling plaster coatings to create a smooth surface? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Which tasks have you performed to repair plaster? Answer to this question is required Cut away damaged plaster Squared an opening Fastened substrate Applied a scratch coat Applied a brown coat Trimmed a brown coat Applied a white coat Applied a Skim coat None of the above 6 Do you have experience applying a skim coat to drywall installations? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which instructions have you followed to repair plaster surfaces? Answer to this question is required Room blueprints Bagged plaster mix instructions Work orders Wall numbering systems None of the above 8 Do you have experience squaring a damaged area for plaster repair? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Have you independently measured water and plaster to create a plaster mixes with different consistencies? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Which materials have you applied to walls or ceilings? Answer to this question is required Spackle / joint compound Gypsalite / Structure lite Gauging plaster Molding plaster / plaster of paris Finishing plaster None of the above 11 Which materials have you used to repair ornamental plaster? Answer to this question is required Fiberglass tape Plaster weld Custom rubber molds None of the above 12 Do you have experience repairing walls or plaster work at heights reached with ladders, scaffolding, or hydraulic lifts? Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 13.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.