Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level as described in the statement below. I have a combination of education and experience None of the above 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as the following: (1) M onitor invoices and payments; (2) Monitor all procurements in the office and (3) Point of contact for maintenance calls and coordinates response to resolve problems for lease occupants. &nbsp; Grade: 11 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field related to the duties of the position. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M., if related. I have a combination of education and experience: An equivalent combination of the specialized experience and the graduate-level education described above. None of the above 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as the following:&nbsp; (1) Assists with administrative and legal management of the AOC's property needs, including the purchase and/or lease of property, license agreements, land or property acquisition, and planning. (2) Manage office budgets, monitor invoices and payments, and oversees all procurements in the office. (3) Assist lawyers in preparing for transactional closings, depositions, conferences in individual cases or transactions and (4) Prepare required documents for property leases or disposal of real property as necessary. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as the following:&nbsp; (1.) Manage office budgets, monitor invoices and payments, and oversees all procurements in the office. (2) Establishes and maintains office case and transaction files. (3) Assists with administrative and legal management of the AOC's property needs, including the purchase and/or lease of property, license agreements, land or property acquisition, and planning. (4) Organize and track files for transactions and cases through case management database to prepare documents summarizing matters. &nbsp; Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Have you personally performed the administrative tasks needed to prepare for a hearing (e.g., assembling exhibit binders, making copies)? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Do you have experience assisting with real property purchases or leasing for a Federal, State, or Local Government entity? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 &nbsp; I have assisted attorney with interpretation and application of laws, regulations, policies, or directives related to: Answer to this question is required Real estate law Leasing Contracts Acquisitions / procurement Appropriations / fiscal law Legislation Tort claims None of the above 5 In which situations have you provided your support for legal subject matter expertise? Answer to this question is required Employment discrimination cases (e.g., hiring, promotion) Employment termination or dismissal cases Employment disciplinary action cases E-discovery None of the above 6 For what reasons have you conducted research? Answer to this question is required To gather information to write a report/briefing To make a recommendation on a legal matter To answer a specific question that was asked To prepare for a meeting / event where others were going to ask me questions To assess the merits of claim None of the above 7 Please select the statement that describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information: Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I gathered, analyzed, and organized information to complete a formal written proposal and/or oral presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., PowerPoint with notes for a manager) in a professional setting. I gathered and organized information to draft reports, correspondence, and/or standard operating procedures. I have gathered and organized documents to maintain case, transactional, and litigation files. I have gathered and organized documents to maintain a case-management database and perform case management duties. I have attended meetings with high ranking officials and VIPs to gather information on behalf of my supervisor or department. 8 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Provided customer service by telephone (e.g. call center or help desk). Explained technical issues and/or provided training to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, and/or direction on regulations and procedures. Clarified procedural, regulatory or policy requirements to a variety of individuals from within and outside of the agency or organization. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. Responded to requests for information from high ranking officials and VIPs None of the above. 9 Choose the oral communication tasks you have performed at work. Answer to this question is required Provided advice, guidance and direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Provided briefings to executives. Provided informational presentations to co-workers. Provided non-technical instructions to others (e.g., subordinates, new hires). None of the above. 10 Select the response that best describes your experience communicating with senior executives, budget officers, or other officials as a regular and recurring part of a job. Answer to this question is required I have communicated with a range of individuals or groups both inside and outside of my organization in order to justify, persuade, negotiate, or resolve controversial policy, project, or program issues. I have conducted discussions or participated in work groups as an organizational program representative in order to influence, motivate, or persuade individuals or groups. I have participated in discussions as a program representative in order to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific financial problems, including influencing or motivating cooperative individuals or groups working towards mutual goals. I have served as a program representative dealing with managers and employees in order to acquire, clarify or exchange facts and information required to complete assignments. None of the above 11 Which of the following types of customers have you interacted with when exchanging information, providing advice and assistance, discussing requirements and resolving problems. Answer to this question is required Executives, Division Directors, or Corporate Officers Senior Managers Congressional Staff External (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc.) Customers and/or Stakeholders Internal Peers and Employees None of the above 12 I have tailored written documents (e.g., level of detail, content, language) to match the intended audiences' interests and level of understanding. Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.