Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. Before answering this question see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, which is equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Service. This experience and education together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 From the following list check all that apply regarding the extent of your classification experience. Answer to this question is required Analyze and interpret work functions and employee utilization to provide guidance on the necessity for reclassification of jobs or realignment of function. Perform comparative classification studies to determine if there is conformity across several offices and/or the agency. Address position classification issues of unusual complexity such as impact of person-on-the-job, interdisciplinary positions, and mixed positions. Provide management advice and assistance on proper position management considering mission requirements and classification accuracy. Resolve difficult, controversial and/or unprecedented classification issues. Develop clear, concise classification evaluation reports. Write responses to Congressional and other important inquiries regarding classification issues. Persuade management, supervisors, employees and others to reach consensus, adopt recommended solutions, or accept work products. Prepare and process formal classification appeals packages. Develop Federal-wide or agency specific position classification standards None of the above. 5 Which of the following classification activities do you independently perform on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Classify positions up to the GS-13 grade level. Classify positions at the GS-14/15 grade level. Assist higher level specialists in performing desk audits. Independently plan for and perform desk audits. Write position descriptions. Advise and assist managers in writing position descriptions. Maintain position description books. Write evaluations using an FES format. Write evaluations using a narrative format. None of the above. 6 Select the choice that BEST represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals regarding human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with individuals to resolve human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve human resources issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address human resources issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing creditability to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. I have experience that involves explaining regulations, agency policy and procedures to employees on human resources issues and providing background on the rationale for such policies. None of the above 7 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 8 Please select the response that BEST describes your experience with correspondence. Answer to this question is required Type in final from draft, ensuring documents are grammatically correct and correspondence is complete. Draft responses to routine requests for information. Review all outgoing correspondence for clarity, grammar, spelling, and conformance with policy and procedures. Draft responses to routine or administrative inquiries. Review final correspondence prepared by others to ensure conformance with policy and procedures. Write non-routine communications or reports that are disseminated outside assigned work area. Create form letters to handle recurring inquiries on same subject. Edit correspondence prepared for supervisor's signature to clarify language or correct grammatical errors. Communicate in writing to all levels of an organization on non-routine matters. Ensure final correspondence has all necessary clearances, is signed, all attachments and enclosures are included and package is forwarded. Instruct subordinate offices on correspondence policy and procedures. Review correspondence ensuring documents are grammatically correct, complete, and conforms with standards and procedures. None of the above. 9 Which of the following types of documents have you written in the human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Job Analysis Position Descriptions Crediting Plans Superior qualifications justifications Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Briefing materials Option papers / decision memoranda Regulatory / statutory material Position Classification Evalutation Reports None of the above 10 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST describes your experience gathering data, conducting analysis and evaluating the results. Answer to this question is required I have analyzed statistical data related to human resources management or programs to identify trends or workforce characteristics that may warrant program changes and/or enhancements. I have knowledge of a wide range of human resources concepts, principles, laws, regulations and practices sufficient to analyze and evaluate data from various human resources program areas and provide sound recommendations for program changes / improvements. I have retrieved, evaluated and analyzed data to assimilate into a report. I have gathered and analyzed human resources data and developed reports. None of the above. 11 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST describes your experience in researching, interpreting, and applying the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) classification standards: Answer to this question is required I have researched, interpreted, and applied OPM classification standards (some without published criteria) for all administrative, management and higher level technical positions, scientific, engineering, other professional, IT, technical occupations. I have reviewed OPM classification standards to identify key occupational characteristic evaluation criteria. I have participated in training that involved interpreting and applying OPM classification standards. I have researched, interpreted, and applied a variety of OPM classification standards (without published criteria) for lower technical and clerical positions. None of the above. 12 What are the highest grades of the positions you have classified? (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required GS-1 through GS-7 positions GS-8 through GS-12 positions GS-13 through GS-15 positions Senior Executive Service (SES) positions None of the above apply 13 Select the types of positions for which you have made classification determinations. (Check all that apply): Answer to this question is required Wage Grade positions General Schedule or equivalent level positions Supervisory positions Excepted Service positions to include Schedule C Senior Executive Service positions None of the above 14 Please select from the following list the statement(s) that demonstrate your level of experience reaffirming or establishing new positions using position classification standards and evaluation guides. Answer to this question is required General Schedule clerical and administrative support positions to reaffirm or establish new positions. General Schedule professional and administrative positions at GS-11 (or equivalent) and above to reaffirm or establish new positions. General Schedule professional and administrative positions at GS-9 (or equivalent) and below to reaffirm or establish new positions. General Schedule scientific and technical positions at GS-11 (or equivalent) and above to reaffirm or establish new positions. General Schedule scientific and technical positions at GS-9 (or equivalent) and below to reaffirm or establish new positions. Wage Grade positions to reaffirm or establish new positions. Senior Executive Service positions. I have not performed any of the above position classification actions. 15 From the descriptions below, choose the response that BEST demonstrates your ability to facilitate communication through consensus building and teamwork. Answer to this question is required I have served as a team leader working collaboratively to resolve problems quickly and constructively, examining the options and providing sensitivity to bring all stakeholders on board to a common position. I have assisted team members and customers reach agreement and applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques to find mutually beneficial solutions to human resources problems and/or conflicts. I have led teams through differences and promoted discussion of divergent views to reach operational agreement or consensus on issues. I have worked in groups and teams; conducting briefings and other meetings; gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals; anticipates issues and facilitates win-win situations. None of the above. Grade: 12 1 GS-12: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the choice that BEST represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals regarding human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with individuals to resolve human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve human resources issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address human resources issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing creditability to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. I have experience that involves explaining regulations, agency policy and procedures to employees on human resources issues and providing background on the rationale for such policies. None of the above 4 From the following list check all that apply regarding the extent of your classification experience. Answer to this question is required Analyze and interpret work functions and employee utilization to provide guidance on the necessity for reclassification of jobs or realignment of function. Perform comparative classification studies to determine if there is conformity across several offices and/or the agency. Address position classification issues of unusual complexity such as impact of person-on-the-job, interdisciplinary positions, and mixed positions. Provide management advice and assistance on proper position management considering mission requirements and classification accuracy. Resolve difficult, controversial and/or unprecedented classification issues. Develop clear, concise classification evaluation reports. Write responses to Congressional and other important inquiries regarding classification issues. Persuade management, supervisors, employees and others to reach consensus, adopt recommended solutions, or accept work products. Prepare and process formal classification appeals packages. Develop Federal-wide or agency specific position classification standards None of the above. 5 Which of the following position classification functions have you independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Classified Supervisory and Senior Executive Service positions (SES) Review position descriptions classified by others to determine adequacy of work and conformance to merit systems principles. Evaluated positions to determine the appropriate title, series and grade. Prepared written evaluation reports to support classification determinations. Performed desk audits. Written position descriptions. Served on program evaluation or oversight review teams. Conducted occupational and organizational studies. Served as a consultant or adviser to management on issues involving job restructuring, realignments, and reorganizations. Served as a technical adviser on competitive sourcing initiatives. None of the above. 6 Choose all of the statements that describe the position classification duties you have performed: Answer to this question is required I have conducted position classification and position management reviews within assigned area to evaluate classification accuracy and consistency. I have developed organizational charts and reorganization / realignment packages for appropriate office / divison / branch. I have provided organizational and position information to appeal adjudications and serve as an agency liaison on appeals or positions. I have evaluated drafts of OPM Classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriated officials. I have evaluated drafts of non-federal classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriated officials. None of the above. 7 Which of the following classification activities do you independently perform on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Classify positions up to the GS-13 grade level. Classify positions at the GS-14/15 grade level. Assist higher level specialists in performing desk audits. Independently plan for and perform desk audits. Write position descriptions. Advise and assist managers in writing position descriptions. Maintain position description books. Write evaluations using an FES format. Write evaluations using a narrative format. None of the above. 8 Choose the statements that describe your experience in conducting desk audits. Answer to this question is required Draft interview questions. Consult with employees and supervisors to gather information / job facts regarding the position and the organization. Conduct assigned desk audits. Consult with supervisors to correct discrepancies in position descriptions and organizational relationships. Resolve discrepancies between approved position descriptions and job audit information regarding the major duties performed by an employee. Independently compose desk audit findings in correspondence and evaluations. Conduct consistency reviews. None of the above. 9 Select the choices which describe your breath of classification experience. Answer to this question is required I have served as a member of an evaluation / audit team reviewing position management and classification matters to ensure compliance. I have provided advice and counsel to senior management officials on a variety of complex and precedent setting issues. I have served as the agency's representative with responsibility for position classification appeals. I have served as an agency representative and defended position classification decisions to third parties as a result of informal or formal complaints. I have instructed managers, supervisors and/or peers on how to write position descriptions using the factor evaluation system. I have conducted briefings to help managers, supervisors and others gain a better understanding of the position classification process. None of the above apply. 10 This position requires the skill to communicate in both formal and informal settings, including communicating effectively with the organization's executives and management officials as well as with employees. The individual will represent the division / bureau at key meetings of the organization and/or Department level workgroups. Select the response that best represents your interpersonal communication experience: Answer to this question is required As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have routinely justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial staffing and/or classification policy or operating program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with senior management, employee organizations and/or individuals at all levels in the public, Federal and private sectors to convey the relevant policies, regulations and procedures. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly represented my office's policies and/or procedures and lead discussions and participated in workgroups on staffing and/or classification matters. This included using effective communication skills to gain a desired outcome or compliance from individual or groups skeptical or in disagreement with the policy, procedure or regulation. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts or resolve operating or procedural problems in staffing and/or classification programs. This included influencing or motivating individuals for groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly provided advice and assistance to those seeking employment related services from my office. Typically, the interaction would include acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 11 Which of the following BEST describes your experience communicating verbally? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a representative in dealing with managers and employees. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from the Department, other Federal Agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions and/or participated in workgroups as a program representative where the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions where the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. I have no education, training or experience performing this task. 12 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 13 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues. Answer to this question is required I have researched technical issues in laws, regulations, and policy guidelines and provided recommendations based on my findings. I have evaluated human resources data to provide recommendations on strategic planning techniques and initiatives. I have analyzed training data to determine trends and significant findings. I have evaluated human resources data to assess trends and patterns, determining causes and offering recommendations to senior management. I have analyzed workforce management data to determine trends, and extrapolate significant findings. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 14 From the following list, please identify the Classification functions in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Conduct desk audits and develop reports of findings. Evaluate and prepare responses to the Office of Personnel Management on draft Classification Standards or Guides. Develop written justification of a classification appeal decision. Work with management officials to develop new positions for a reorganization. Respond verbally or in writing to Classification issues raised by Union officials, EEO investigators or other third parties. None of the above 15 Please select the type(s) of written products you have produced as a regular part of your job in a human resources (HR) environment: Answer to this question is required I have written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences on HR issues. I have written products to explain complex, controversial HR agency policies or programs. I have written agency-wide HR policy and procedural materials for dissemination to headquarters, field or bureau level components. I have issued position papers or summary reports on organizational data, which included analysis and recommendations of HR issues. I have written human resource program policies, reports, agency-wide guidelines on Senior Executive Service (SES) issues, and/or drafted proposed legislation on SES issues. I have reviewed written HR material, and suggested improvements, for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. My written products have been recognized as high-quality, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards. None of the above. 16 Which of the following types of documents have you written in the human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Job Analysis Position Descriptions Crediting Plans Superior qualifications justifications Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Briefing materials Option papers / decision memoranda Regulatory / statutory material Position Classification Evalutation Reports None of the above Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the choice that BEST represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals regarding human resources issues: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with individuals to resolve human resources issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve human resources issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address human resources issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing creditability to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. I have experience that involves explaining regulations, agency policy and procedures to employees on human resources issues and providing background on the rationale for such policies. None of the above 4 Choose all of the statements that describe the position classification duties you have performed: Answer to this question is required I have conducted position classification and position management reviews within assigned area to evaluate classification accuracy and consistency. I have developed organizational charts and reorganization / realignment packages for appropriate office / divison / branch. I have provided organizational and position information to appeal adjudications and serve as an agency liaison on appeals or positions. I have evaluated drafts of OPM Classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriated officials. I have evaluated drafts of non-federal classification standards and provided feedback to the appropriated officials. None of the above. 5 Which of the following classification activities do you independently perform on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Classify positions up to the GS-13 grade level. Classify positions at the GS-14/15 grade level. Assist higher level specialists in performing desk audits. Independently plan for and perform desk audits. Write position descriptions. Advise and assist managers in writing position descriptions. Maintain position description books. Write evaluations using an FES format. Write evaluations using a narrative format. None of the above. 6 Select the choices which describe your breath of classification experience. Answer to this question is required I have served as a member of an evaluation / audit team reviewing position management and classification matters to ensure compliance. I have provided advice and counsel to senior management officials on a variety of complex and precedent setting issues. I have served as the agency's representative with responsibility for position classification appeals. I have served as an agency representative and defended position classification decisions to third parties as a result of informal or formal complaints. I have instructed managers, supervisors and/or peers on how to write position descriptions using the factor evaluation system. I have conducted briefings to help managers, supervisors and others gain a better understanding of the position classification process. None of the above apply. 7 Choose the statements that describe your experience in conducting desk audits. Answer to this question is required Draft interview questions. Consult with employees and supervisors to gather information / job facts regarding the position and the organization. Conduct assigned desk audits. Consult with supervisors to correct discrepancies in position descriptions and organizational relationships. Resolve discrepancies between approved position descriptions and job audit information regarding the major duties performed by an employee. Independently compose desk audit findings in correspondence and evaluations. Conduct consistency reviews. None of the above. 8 This position requires the skill to communicate in both formal and informal settings, including communicating effectively with the organization's executives and management officials as well as with employees. The individual will represent the division / bureau at key meetings of the organization and/or Department level workgroups. Select the response that best represents your interpersonal communication experience: Answer to this question is required As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have routinely justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial staffing and/or classification policy or operating program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with senior management, employee organizations and/or individuals at all levels in the public, Federal and private sectors to convey the relevant policies, regulations and procedures. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly represented my office's policies and/or procedures and lead discussions and participated in workgroups on staffing and/or classification matters. This included using effective communication skills to gain a desired outcome or compliance from individual or groups skeptical or in disagreement with the policy, procedure or regulation. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, consult on work efforts or resolve operating or procedural problems in staffing and/or classification programs. This included influencing or motivating individuals for groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. As part of my duties and responsibilities, I have regularly provided advice and assistance to those seeking employment related services from my office. Typically, the interaction would include acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. None of the above. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your experience communicating verbally? Answer to this question is required I have regularly served as a representative in dealing with managers and employees. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, and/or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives from the Department, other Federal Agencies, industry leaders, congressional staffs, and officials of foreign governments). I have regularly conducted discussions and/or participated in workgroups as a program representative where the purpose was to influence, motivate, and/or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, (e.g. gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation). I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions where the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes. I have no education, training or experience performing this task. 10 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 11 Please select the type(s) of written products you have produced as a regular part of your job in a human resources (HR) environment: Answer to this question is required I have written material for briefings, meetings, or conferences on HR issues. I have written products to explain complex, controversial HR agency policies or programs. I have written agency-wide HR policy and procedural materials for dissemination to headquarters, field or bureau level components. I have issued position papers or summary reports on organizational data, which included analysis and recommendations of HR issues. I have written human resource program policies, reports, agency-wide guidelines on Senior Executive Service (SES) issues, and/or drafted proposed legislation on SES issues. I have reviewed written HR material, and suggested improvements, for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. My written products have been recognized as high-quality, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards. None of the above. 12 Which of the following types of documents have you written in the human resources environment? Answer to this question is required Job Analysis Position Descriptions Crediting Plans Superior qualifications justifications Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Correspondence Technical reports Policy guidance Briefing materials Option papers / decision memoranda Regulatory / statutory material Position Classification Evalutation Reports None of the above 13 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching human resources issues. Answer to this question is required I have researched technical issues in laws, regulations, and policy guidelines and provided recommendations based on my findings. I have evaluated human resources data to provide recommendations on strategic planning techniques and initiatives. I have analyzed training data to determine trends and significant findings. I have evaluated human resources data to assess trends and patterns, determining causes and offering recommendations to senior management. I have analyzed workforce management data to determine trends, and extrapolate significant findings. I have no experience in performing any of the above tasks. 14 From the following list check all that apply regarding the extent of your classification experience. Answer to this question is required Analyze and interpret work functions and employee utilization to provide guidance on the necessity for reclassification of jobs or realignment of function. Perform comparative classification studies to determine if there is conformity across several offices and/or the agency. Address position classification issues of unusual complexity such as impact of person-on-the-job, interdisciplinary positions, and mixed positions. Provide management advice and assistance on proper position management considering mission requirements and classification accuracy. Resolve difficult, controversial and/or unprecedented classification issues. Develop clear, concise classification evaluation reports. Write responses to Congressional and other important inquiries regarding classification issues. Persuade management, supervisors, employees and others to reach consensus, adopt recommended solutions, or accept work products. Prepare and process formal classification appeals packages. Develop Federal-wide or agency specific position classification standards None of the above. 15 From the following list, please identify the Classification functions in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Conduct desk audits and develop reports of findings. Evaluate and prepare responses to the Office of Personnel Management on draft Classification Standards or Guides. Develop written justification of a classification appeal decision. Work with management officials to develop new positions for a reorganization. Respond verbally or in writing to Classification issues raised by Union officials, EEO investigators or other third parties. None of the above 16 Which of the following position classification functions have you independently performed on a regular and recurring basis. (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Classified Supervisory and Senior Executive Service positions (SES) Review position descriptions classified by others to determine adequacy of work and conformance to merit systems principles. Evaluated positions to determine the appropriate title, series and grade. Prepared written evaluation reports to support classification determinations. Performed desk audits. Written position descriptions. Served on program evaluation or oversight review teams. Conducted occupational and organizational studies. Served as a consultant or adviser to management on issues involving job restructuring, realignments, and reorganizations. Served as a technical adviser on competitive sourcing initiatives. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.