Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the presentation / communication task(s) that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have effectively communicated technical information to others. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or to take a particular course of action. I have conducted presentations and/or training sessions with varied audiences with different levels of comprehension. I have effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities. I have facilitated problem resolution. I have been consulted by peers or other organizational representatives on administrative issues. None of the above. 2 With which of the following program management techniques do you have education or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones None of the above 3 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and/or procedures for a specific external audience. I have written to defend a position . I have prepared and presented written findings / summaries of analyses. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to specific program personnel, subject-matter experts and/or management officials. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 4 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Academic reports Government or official reports Newspaper, magazine, or journal articles Press releases Technical documents Speeches Books Publications Policy guidance Opinion papers / decision memos None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.