Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received at the time you apply. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of conducting studies, fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and giving or receiving guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interviewed inmates during an investigation; and/or I have counseled staff regarding work performance; and/or I have participated as a panel member during an initial interview; and/or I have given informal training to staff; during a departmental meeting, discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding the design of a data research project. I have briefed co-workers on office procedures; and/or I have communicated with management about personal work performance; and/or I have participated in informal training for staff; and/or I have asked questions during departmental meetings; and/or I have provided information about an office project to co-workers. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with management officials while involved in a project; and/or I have performed and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have provided technical interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have presented working papers to the Section Chief and/or equivalent; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within a specific discipline. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst communicates in writing with people at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an after-action plan for correction; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have drafted proposed responses to operations/program review findings or internal/external audit findings; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements and/or technical guidelines for staff within the department for the supervisor. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to an updated current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. I have prepared informational correspondence; and/or I have provided a written recap of meeting notes; and/or I have created a notice for staff on an upcoming event; and/or I have prepared a written budget; and/or I have produced documents that are grammatically correct and convey the intended message. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst is responsible for evaluating programs, software, hardware and systems to meet the needs of automated procurement systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. With direction or assistance, I have entered data into and pulled data from the database system correctly; and/or by tracking and analyzing internal data, I have made basic interpretations of data; and/or I have performed data searches in Access or other programs; and/or I have utilized Financial Management Information System (FMIS), Federal Procurement Data System – Next Generation (FPDS-NG), Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) or other internal programs containing data. With direction, I have assisted in monitoring information flow and progress among users, analysts, programmers and contractors throughout system development and implementation; and/or I have pulled training reports and identified and tracked mandatory training standards; and/or I have assisted in creating updated acquisition documents to comply with Federal Acquisition Regulations. I have debugged programs; and/or I have corrected system logic errors; and/or I have made periodic reports on the status of systems; and/or I have analyzed the need for new equipment and recommended a means of acquisition. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be able to run reports from multiple procurement systems such as Unified Financial Management System (UFMS), Federal Procurement Data System (Next Generation), electronic subcontracting reporting system or similar procurement systems to be able to analyze the data.&nbsp; He/she ensures contracts contain the correct provisions/clauses in solicitations/contracts, the correct dollar amounts are reported to Congress and Office of Management and Budget that all subcontracts are reported accurately and timely. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed basic financial data and office supply charges to determine budget requirements for the next fiscal year; and/or I have reported electronic data; and/or I have entered data into Excel or another type of spreadsheet in already established formulas. I have analyzed procurement data at year-end to ensure proper classification of reportable actions; and/or I have created spreadsheets using formulas and multiple worksheets in Excel or another type of spreadsheet; and/or I have ran reports from pre-established programs such as Financial Procurement Data System - Next Generation, Access reports, Excel or another type of spreadsheet or from Sally Port; and/or I have reconciled contract/modification logs to Financial Procurement Data System - Next Generation. I have maintained a roster of contracts and modifications that were issued for construction projects; and/or I have tracked controlled correspondence; and/or I have completed spreadsheets for office supply charges; and/or I have analyzed travel costs and/or office supply charges to provide a record for the fiscal year; and/or I have utilized established Excel files to prepare reports. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must be able to prepare materials to present for training of procurement systems and software usage on a personal computer or a presentation training environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided administrative assistance in preparation of materials for training or presentations; and/or I have tutored or instructed individuals in job skills in training situations; and/or I have organized materials for presentations for meetings; and/or I have assisted others in developing presentations and/or training materials; and/or I have participated in tutoring an individual in job skills. I have presented materials to managers and other staff or the public in a structured environment; and/or I have developed or conducted training required by agency policy; and/or I have presented materials in meetings or conferences; and/or I have developed or conducted training required by a specific agency discipline (i.e., acquisitions) policy; and/or I have participated in presentations to other staff or the public; and/or I have presented training during Annual Training. I have presented a budget summary in a meeting; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings; and/or I have organized and presented information regarding a new administrative procedural requirement; and/or I have trained new staff on the job. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Management Analyst interacts with people at many levels both internal and external to the organization. Contacts are for the purpose of conducting studies, fact finding, gathering data and exchange of information to resolve problems, clarify issues and giving or receiving guidance on proposed solutions/recommendations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with management officials while involved in a project; and/or I have performed and coordinated management analysis functions to determine how productivity can be improved; and/or I have provided technical interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others; and/or I have presented working papers to the Section Chief and/or equivalent; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on changes or revisions within a specific discipline. I have interviewed inmates during an investigation; and/or I have counseled staff regarding work performance; and/or I have participated as a panel member during an initial interview; and/or I have given informal training to staff; and/or during a departmental meeting, I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office; and/or I have exchanged information with a co-worker regarding the design of a data research project. I have provided highly technical information to external professional/technical staff, such as contract software vendors and computer programmers; and/or I have conducted detailed technical interviews during a data research study; and/or I have delegated work assignments to subordinate staff; and/or I have exchanged highly technical data and information with various management levels at institutions, regions and headquarters. None of the above. 3 The Management Analyst communicates in writing with people at all levels both within and outside the agency regarding a variety of issues. He/she is responsible for creating reports, correspondence, and charts to document findings of studies and analysis conducted. He/she must possess strong written communication skills in order to effectively communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have composed memoranda to division staff about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have responded to inquiries from external organizations; and/or I have prepared responses to operations/program review findings for signature of superior without changes; and/or I have written technical status reports and issue papers; and/or I have prepared/written briefings concerning changes in Program Statements, institution supplements, and/or technical guidelines for staff within the department; and/or I have prepared an after-action report based on a program review or comparable audit findings; and/or I have prepared reports for managerial staff meetings. I have developed meeting agenda and participant handouts; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an after-action plan for correction; and/or I have prepared clarification/directional information or memoranda for staff; and/or I have drafted proposed responses to operations/program review findings or internal/external audit findings; and/or I have drafted briefings concerning changes in program statements, institution supplements and/or technical guidelines for staff within the department for the supervisor. I have prepared investigative reports in accordance with established guidelines; and/or I have prepared written recommendations to an updated current procedure; and/or I have reviewed correspondence prepared by others for grammatical and correctness of format; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have recorded minutes at a staff department head meeting. None of the above. 4 The Management Analyst is responsible for evaluating programs, software, hardware and systems to meet the needs of automated procurement systems. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. With direction, I have assisted in monitoring information flow and progress among users, analysts, programmers and contractors throughout system development and implementation; and/or I have pulled training reports and identified and tracked mandatory training standards; and/or I have assisted in creating updated acquisition documents to comply with Federal Acquisition Regulations. I have debugged programs; and/or I have corrected system logic errors; and/or I have made periodic reports on the status of systems; and/or I have analyzed the need for new equipment and recommended a means of acquisition. I have maintained supervision of contractors already in place; and/or I have assisted in the development of detailed plans for new applications and for conversion from manual procedures to automated; and/or I have analyzed new job proposals and participated in discussions with subject matter experts and systems analysts to become familiar with requirements for projects; and/or I have reviewed manpower utilization and documented methods/procedures in place for performing work. None of the above. 5 The Management Analyst must be able to run reports from multiple procurement systems such as Unified Financial Management System (UFMS), Federal Procurement Data System (Next Generation), electronic subcontracting reporting system or similar procurement systems to be able to analyze the data. He/she ensures contracts contain the correct provisions/clauses in solicitations/contracts, the correct dollar amounts are reported to Congress and Office of Management and Budget that all subcontracts are reported accurately and timely. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed procurement data at year-end to ensure proper classification of reportable actions; and/or I have created spreadsheets using formulas and multiple worksheets in Excel or another type of spreadsheet; and/or I have ran reports from pre-established programs such as Financial Procurement Data System - Next Generation, Access reports, Excel or another type of spreadsheet or from Sally Port; and/or I have reconciled contract/modification logs to Financial Procurement Data System - Next Generation. Based on data entered in Financial Procurement Data System - Next Generation or a similar system, I have recognized when an action was incorrectly reported; and/or I have entered and/or retrieved data from a Financial Procurement Data System - Next Generation/eSRS or similar system; and/or I have reconciled contract modification logs with Financial Procurement Data System and communicated with the Contracting Officer when an action was incorrect; and/or I have formulated data in Access or similar data base; and/or I have created spreadsheets using complex formulas and intra-dependent worksheets in Excel or similar type of spreadsheet. I have analyzed basic financial data and office supply charges to determine budget requirements for the next fiscal year; and/or I have reported electronic data; and/or I have entered data into Excel or another type of spreadsheet in already established formulas. None of the above. 6 The Management Analyst must be able to prepare materials to present for training of procurement systems and software usage on a personal computer or a presentation training environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented a budget summary in a meeting; and/or I have provided briefings during department staff meetings; and/or I have organized and presented information regarding a new administrative procedural requirement; and/or I have trained new staff on the job. I have presented standardized or accredited subjects to a large audience; and/or I have developed training methods or materials that have been used by departments and/or other trainers for implementation; and/or I have developed and/or presented complicated materials to high ranking officials or in open public settings. I have presented materials to managers and other staff or the public in a structured environment; and/or I have developed or conducted training required by agency policy; and/or I have presented materials in meetings or conferences; and/or I have developed or conducted training required by a specific agency discipline (i.e., acquisitions) policy; and/or I have participated in presentations to other staff or the public; and/or I have presented training during Annual Training. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 8 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).