Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience conducting inventory of stock. Answer to this question is required I have not participated in stock inventory. I have counted and recorded the quantity of items. I have identified misplaced items during an inventory. I have checked inventory discrepancies against records to identify errors. Grade: 06 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 How have you resolved a discrepancy between a purchase order and delivery contents? Answer to this question is required I have contacted purchasing. I have refused delivery of items. I have documented discrepancies between orders and items delivered and requested the help of a supervisor. I have documented discrepancies between orders and items delivered and identified a resolution. None of the above 3 Choose the statements that describes your experience operating forklifts. Answer to this question is required Maneuvered forklifts in small areas such as in warehouses and between outside buildings. Transported vehicles, lifting, lowering and tilting forks in an appropriate safe manner Applied leverage when moving and handling heavy equipment and furnishings. Loaded and unloaded, stacked and unstacked warehouses Moved crates, boxes, packages, pallets, or loose items. None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Do you possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please indicate the State and expiration date of your Motor Vehicle Operator's license in the textbox below. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 3 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 4 Do you have experience operating a pallet jack? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list the name of the certification(s) and the date(s) the certification was earned. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 5 Which tasks have you performed with an Inventory Supply Database? Answer to this question is required Maintained inventory control records Analyzed supply requirements Determine supply stock levels Summarized supply requirement Estimated frequency of supply orders Monitored usage transactions Tracked timing of reorders Developed reports to monitor delivery of goods None of the above 6 Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience ensuring the accuracy of supply inventories: Answer to this question is required I have not ensured the accuracy of supply inventories or supply orders. I have matched inventory records to physical inventory to check accuracy. I have identified inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. I have resolved inconsistencies between inventory records and physical inventory. 7 Do you have experience operating a forklift without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience arranging supplies in a warehouse. Answer to this question is required I have developed storage plans and determined the best location for supplies. I have followed established storage plans and stock rotation guidelines to arrange supplies. I have determined where to store supplies with assistance from a supervisor. None of the above. 9 Which tasks have you performed to check the accuracy of supply orders? Answer to this question is required Checked orders against order history Confirmed order amounts with individual placing the order Checked order amounts against projected supply Physically checked inventory to confirm need for supplies None of the above 10 Which industrial trucks have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet Jacks Hand Trucks None of the Above 11 Which tasks have you performed with an automated inventory system (e.g., Maximo)? Answer to this question is required Entered data Looked up inventory codes Tracked inventory levels Created reports of items in short supply Initiated re-order requests Prepared a weekly listing of stock None of the above 12 Which purchasing problems have you identified? Answer to this question is required Discrepancies between amount ordered and amount invoiced Discrepancies between item quoted and item delivered Discrepancies between price quoted and price invoiced Receipt of damaged goods Delivery of supplies to the incorrect location / point of contact None of the above 13 Which tasks have you performed in a warehouse? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issuing and receiving Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment Unload equipment Assemble items delivered in pieces None of the above 14 Do you have experience moving items using a forklift? Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Which safety practices have you used to stock items? Answer to this question is required Determined whether a spotter is needed Checked the weight of the load against the capacity of moving equipment (e.g., pallet jack, forklift) Set up barriers to limit access to storage areas (e.g., caution tape, orange cones) Followed safe lifting procedures to move items None of the above 16 Select the personal protective equipment (PPE) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Goggles Gloves Safety shoes None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.