Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic educational requirement for GS-1701 positions. Answer to this question is required I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university that was supplemented by major study in education or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position. I have completed course work equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a 4-year course of study in education or a subject matter field related to the position. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following describes your knowledge of best practices in museum education? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had experience creating and managing innovative school programs in a museum or cultural organization. I have performed only a supporting role (i.e., historical research, booking tours) in creating and managing school programs in a museum or cultural organization. I worked on a team that created and managed school programs in a museum or cultural organization. I have led a team or was the primary point-person in creating and managing school programs in a museum or cultural organization . I have led a team or was the primary point-person in creating and managing school programs in a museum or cultural organization in the Washington D. C. metro area. 4 Which of the following describes your training in creating educational programs? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had any training in creating educational programs. I have had on-the-job training in creating educational programs. I have completed college level coursework in creating educational programs. I have an undergraduate and/or graduate degree in education, museum education, or another education-related field. 5 Which of the following describes your experience teaching, facilitating dialogue, or training learners? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience teaching, facilitating dialogue, or training. I have experience teaching in a k-12 school. I have experience leading educational tours or facilitating learning experiences for the public in a museum or cultural organization. I have experience facilitating group dialogue sessions in a learning context. I have experience facilitating workshops for the public. 6 Which of the following describes your experience building relationships with teachers, schools, and school systems?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have experience building relationships with teachers, schools, and school systems. I have some experience building relationships with teachers, schools, and school systems. I have built and maintained relationships or partnerships with teachers, schools, and school systems. I have built and maintained relationships or partnerships with teachers, schools, and school systems in Washington D. C. and/or suburbs. 7 Which of the following describes your knowledge of educational theories and teaching techniques necessary to assure the quality of learning experiences? &nbsp; (Mark all that apply) Answer to this question is required Use of “compelling” or essential questions (see C3 framework and Understanding by Design) or other approaches to organize content to require learners to participate in inquiry rather than memorizing facts. Use of purposeful “scaffolding” from a learner’s previous knowledge or skills to new knowledge or skills. Use of trauma-informed teaching to consider how trauma impacts learning and behavior of students. Use of immersive theatre, role-play, games, or other novel approaches to increase learner participation. Incorporating social-emotional learning (SEL) goals to help learners build SEL skills. Use of group dialogue to examine multiple perspectives. 8 Educational programs I&rsquo;ve created prioritize active rather than passive learning. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following describes your expertise in understanding historical and current-day experiences of marginalized urban communities? (Mark all that apply) Answer to this question is required My knowledge has been acquired through my own lived experience. I have developed educational programs that focus on these topics. I have completed college coursework on these topics. None of the above. 10 Which of the following practices have you employed in an effort to recruit and lead a team of educators? (Mark all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have recruited educator candidates using pro-active methods, so that the education team reflects the community the museum serves. I have placed a high priority on training educators in teaching skills so that learners are engaged. I have acted as a caring mentor to less experienced educators while maintaining professional boundaries as a supervisor. I have effectively aligned educator schedules with the needs of audiences. 11 Which of the following best describes your organizational skills? Answer to this question is required I do not look organized, but I get the job done. Organization is not one of my best skills. I am fairly good at building systems of organization that help set expectations for employees and audience. I am a master at building systems of organization that help set expectations for employees and audiences. None of the above. 12 Do you have experience recruiting and leading a team of educators? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following describes your experience writing for public audiences? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written an article, a blog post, a book chapter or similar that was published online or in print. I have written scripts or plays to be performed for public audiences. I have written lesson plans or learning activities. I have written grants. I have written marketing copy. I have not done any writing for public audiences. I have written social media posts as a part of a job or career. I have written family guides or other educational material for student audiences. 14 Which of the following writing styles are you MOST known for?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Thorough and comprehensive Persuasive or dramatic Pragmatic and succinct Relatable and story-driven I am not known for my ability to write for public audiences 15 Which of the following describes your experience speaking in front of public audiences? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience speaking in front of public audiences. I have experience teaching adult audiences. I have experience teaching K-12 student audiences None of the above. 16 Which of the following public speaking styles are you MOST known for?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Thorough and comprehensive Relatable and story-driven Persuasive or dramatic Pragmatic and succinct I am not known for my ability to speak in front of public audiences Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.