Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate Education: Major study -- any field of study in an accredited college or university. Graduate Education: Major study -- fields related to the position to be filled. OR B. Specialized Experience: Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Working as a skilled mechanic or maintenance worker, sales or service engineer, or planner or estimator in a technical group dealing with manufacture, utilization, repair, or operation of equipment. Reviewing and applying technical specifications and requirements. Analyzing equipment and forecasting spare parts requirements. Reading and interpreting engineering change orders, equipment requisitions, shop orders, and work orders. Analyzing contract specifications and examining pertinent equipment to determine if specifications are met. Analyzing or supervising maintenance, repair, or production operations to determine methods of improvement. NOTE: &nbsp;All applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Equipment Specialist must be able to communicate with a variety of individuals.&nbsp;Personal contacts include high level officials in the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and Department of Justice (DOJ) as well as officials in other agencies such as the General Services Administration (GSA), various other Federal Agencies and individuals such as contractors, company officials, and private sector vendors outside of the government.&nbsp;He/she will routinely communicate and provide technical advice, training, assistance, and directions to managers at the Central Office, Regional Office and institution level.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided technical assistance to staff during an on-site visit; and/or I have interacted with Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) managers while involved in a project; and/or I have coordinated facility inspections; and/or I have provided advice to less experienced staff. I have participated as a member of a task force or work group; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have taught training courses/seminars on Fleet Management, Fleet Credit Card issues and other facilities topics; and/or I have chaired division meeting. I have exchanged information with personnel from General Services Administration (GSA) or other federal agencies; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external contractors, private sector vendors, and various other company officials; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted. None of the above. 6 The Equipment Specialist must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner.&nbsp;He/she must be able to respond to numerous reports as well as prepare informational memorandums and requests. The Equipment Specialist must translate technical documents, plans, specifications, and reports into layman terms.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have prepared weekly status briefing; and/or I have revised internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations Memorandums; and/or I have independently prepared technical documentation or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have responded to Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding proposed congressional legislation affecting Bureau of Prison (BOP) facilities management. I have written memorandums for informational purposes; and/or I have prepared memorandums or correspondence for supervisory review and signature; and/or I have responded to routine electronic emails. I have prepared directions for peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared written responses regarding Fleet Credit Card discrepancies; and/or I have prepared congressional responses regarding facilities issues. None of the above. 7 The Equipment Specialist must have knowledge of a wide variety of specialty areas in facilities management and have managed facilities operations at other Bureau of Prisons (BOP) locations.&nbsp;He/she is responsible for the management, coordination, development and implementation of all motor vehicle fleet throughout the Bureau of Prisons (BOP).&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have, as a General Foreman, assigned tasks consistent with worker capabilities; and/or I have monitored the progress of multiple geographically disbursed projects; and/or I have oversaw the work of an automotive work crew responsible for garage operations for a fleet larger than twenty (20) vehicles; and/or I have as a General Foreman/Utilities Chief, administered power plant and garage operations; and/or I have implemented established policies for a facilities operation. I have coordinated the activities in areas such as preventive/corrective maintenance, utilities, equipment, telecommunications; and/or I have implemented guidelines/directives for the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) facility operations mechanical services areas; and/or I have performed duties as a Facility Manager in a Complex or other large facility. I have oversaw the work of a work crew engaged in similar occupations; and/or I have ordered necessary materials for projects; and/or I have identified deficiencies during an audit; and/or I have kept project documentation current. None of the above. 8 The Equipment Specialist must be able to plan and organize work as well as manage the available resources.&nbsp;Primarily, he/she must manage the fleet of motor vehicles in the entire Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Responsibilities also extend to the bus maintenance facility at the United States Penitentiary (USP) Terre Haute and the bus fleet.&nbsp;He/she must ensure consistent application of resources Bureau-wide, which includes responsibility for the Fleet Credit Card at all institutions.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated program to upgrade and standardize motor vehicle fleet; and/or I have coordinated and implemented standards for replacement criteria; and/or I have made changes as necessary in established standards, replacement criteria, quotas and operating policy for Bureau of Prisons (BOP) motor vehicle fleet operations; and/or I have prepared specifications for procurement of vehicles; and/or I have prepared flow charts to monitor vehicle inventories, parts inventories, fuel usage, maintenance histories; and/or I have prepared budgetary requests for Bureau-wide vehicle replacement and/or additions; and/or I have coordinated leasing and centralized procurement of vehicles through the General Services Administration (GSA). I have provided necessary training as new policies were implemented; and/or I have completed and provided workload status reports; and/or I have provided technical expertise to facilities operations staff in the Central Office and Regional Offices. I have researched and interpreted applicable regulations regarding vehicle procurement and replacement criteria; and/or I have reviewed all incoming legislation, Executive Orders, and Department of Justice (DOJ) fleet management policies to determine the application of these requirements and effect on the Bureau of Prisons (BOP); and/or I have developed and implemented new internal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) policy changes required, resulting from newly mandated legislation, Executive Orders, Department of Justice (DOJ) policies or requirements; and/or I have established and implemented standards, replacement criteria, quotas and operating policy for the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) motor vehicle fleet operations; and/or I have reviewed and analyzed National Fleet Credit Card monthly statements/reports; and/or I have, if/when questionable activity (odd purchases) occurred with a Fleet Credit Card, investigated and reconciled those discrepancies. None of the above. 9 The Equipment Specialist must have a thorough knowledge of correctional institution management in order to provide leadership, policy formulation, and coordination to ensure a safe, secure institution environment for inmates and staff.&nbsp;He/she also has to have a thorough knowledge of security requirements for inmate transportation vehicles.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at institutions; and/or I have served on correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have performed duties as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I training or new employee orientation to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have worked in a correctional environment and participated in shakedowns, emergency counts, and accountability checks on a regular basis; and/or I have supervised a large inmate work crew; and/or I have noticed atypical behavior in an inmate and took corrective action. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).