Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Do you have specialized experience (Federal or other) performing the following duties: planning and serving as a key advisor on the use of interior and exterior space for a large scale museum during a major renovation or construction project. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience working in an exhibits production environment? Answer to this question is required I have independently designed exhibits in a museum or similar environment and led an exhibits production team that performed design, graphics, model-making and/or fabrication tasks in a museum or similar environment. I have independently produced models for exhibits in a museum or similar environment. I have independently performed task in various areas of exhibits production such as design, graphics, model-making and/or fabrications tasks in a museum or similar environment. I have independently created graphics for exhibits in a museum or similar environment. I have supervised a department or unit that produced all phases of the exhibits production process. I have independently fabricated exhibits in a museum or similar environment. I have training or educations related to exhibits production but have not performed this task on job. I do not have experience performing this task. 4 Which statement best describes your level of experience in designing graphics and preparing the designs for production? Answer to this question is required I have worked as the lead graphic designer for a major exhibition (greater than 3,000 sq.ft.) responsible for all graphic design within the exhibit and related peripheral graphics (promotion, wayfinding, etc.) using Adobe Creative Suite programs, and have prepared production files of same. I have worked as the lead graphic designer for a small exhibition responsible for all graphic design within the exhibit and related peripheral graphics (promotion, wayfinding, etc.) using Adobe Creative Suite programs, and have prepared production files of same. I have contributed to the graphic design and production packages for a major exhibition. I do not have experience performing this task. 5 Which of the following are included in the knowledge of interpretive exhibit design principles required to create unified, engaging public exhibits? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Graphics Color Lighting Audio visuals Specimen or artifact display Aesthetic standards Building HVAC maintenance 6 Which of the following reflect your experience preparing conceptual interpretive designs and visual materials for zoo, museum, or similar public exhibition environments? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have prepared conceptual interpretive design proposals for zoo, museum, or similar public exhibition environments based on exhibit themes or narratives. I have translated verbal theme statements or planning outlines into two- or three-dimensional visual concepts for zoo or museum exhibits. I have created design renderings or visualizations to communicate exhibit concepts to planning teams or stakeholders in a zoo or museum setting. I have developed physical or digital models to explore spatial or interpretive exhibit ideas for zoo or museum environments. I have prepared visual presentations to support collaborative exhibit planning or design reviews for zoo, museum, or similar public spaces. I have supported interdisciplinary teams (designers, curators, educators, architects) by providing conceptual visual materials for exhibit development. None of the above. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating exhibit design solutions to ensure clarity, accessibility, and interpretive effectiveness for visitors? Answer to this question is required I have independently evaluated exhibit designs for clarity, accessibility, and interpretive effectiveness, provided formal recommendations for improvement, and ensured final designs met organizational or audience‑specific standards. I have reviewed exhibit design solutions and provided feedback on clarity, accessibility, or interpretive content, often with guidance from senior staff or project leads. I have limited experience evaluating exhibit designs and have only assisted with basic review tasks without responsibility for assessing interpretive or accessibility effectiveness. I have no experience evaluating exhibit designs for clarity, accessibility, or interpretive effectiveness. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing conceptual interpretive designs, design renderings, and visual presentations, and communicating design information in writing to a wide variety of groups and individuals? Answer to this question is required I regularly prepare conceptual interpretive designs, design renderings, and visual presentations, and communicate design information in writing to a wide range of audiences, including staff, administrators, vendors, and consultants. I have experience preparing design renderings or visual presentations and communicating design information in writing to internal teams, with guidance or review from others. I have limited experience assisting with the preparation of design renderings or written design information for review by others. I have little to no experience preparing design renderings, visual presentations, or communicating design information in writing. 9 Which of the following describes your experience in serving as a contracting representative? Answer to this question is required I have served as a contracting representative on contracts over $100,000. I am certified as a contracting representative for contracts over $100,000. I have served as a contracting representative on contracts under $100,000. I am certified as a contracting representative on contracts under $100,000, but have not served as contracting representative on a contract. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience managing collection improvement projects, writing Statements of Work (SOW) and Requests for Quote (RFQ), and serving as a contract representative or Point of Contact (POC) in a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience managing collection improvement projects, writing SOWs or RFQs, and have not served as a contract representative or POC in a museum or cultural institution. I have limited experience writing SOWs and RFQs, but have not served as a contract representative or POC on collections project I have moderate experience writing SOWs and RFQs, and have served as a contract representative or POC on a collections project. I have extensive experience managing collection improvement projects by serving as a contract representative or POC on multiple projects and writing SOWs and RFQs. 11 Do you have experience with managing complex, multi-year exhibit schedules and budgets, as well as extensive experience in content research, script development and interpretive strategies? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following best describes your experience reviewing architectural drawings, shop drawings, submittals, specifications, and other contracted deliverables? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have significant experience reviewing and/or approving architectural drawings, shop drawings, submittals, specifications, and other contracted deliverables for museum exhibition projects. I have experience reviewing architectural drawings, shop drawings, submittals, specifications, and other contracted deliverables for museum exhibition projects. I have experience reviewing architectural drawings, shop drawings, submittals, specifications, and/or other contracted deliverables for design projects. I have some experience reviewing architectural drawings, shop drawings, submittals, specifications, and/or other contracted deliverables. I do not have related experience. 13 Which of the following statements reflect your experience producing cost-effective design solutions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have produced design solutions that met budgeted costs. I have produced design solutions that were completed below budgeted costs. I have produced design solutions that utilized a creative economy of materials. I have produced design solutions that combined projects for an economy of cost. I have produced design solutions that applied reusable templates for an economy of time and cost. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.