Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 In which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings Work groups One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Testimony None of the above 2 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations. Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations Inter-agency meetings Civic Organizations None of the above 3 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in teams. I have experience working in teams that required developing cooperation of team members, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required agreement on complex issues, building team spirit and cohesiveness, interacting with team members constructively, and solving problems as a group. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 4 Which of the following reflects your leadership abilities? Answer to this question is required I perform key decision making and policy developing responsibilities in very difficult assignments. I advise top-level agency officials and subject matter managers on new developments and advances. I plan, organize, and direct others in long-range studies and forecasts. I plan, organize, and direct the work of others for a particular assignment / project. Others regularly consult me for guidance and/or advice. None of the above. 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. 6 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 7 With which of the following project / program management techniques do you have education, training or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones ISO 9000 Six Sigma Kempner-Tregoe None of the above 8 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of training and/or experience in managing projects/ programs? Answer to this question is required I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet managed projects / programs in work situations. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in managing projects / programs. I have formal education / training in this area and work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and developing clear performance measures and plans. I have no formal education/ training in this area but I have work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. I have no experience, formal training, or education managing projects/ programs. 9 Which of the following budget formulation activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Identified and studied program and budget problems requiring resolution. Applied strategies to analyze financial statements and used related information in budget preparation. Utilized guidelines for establishing effective budget objectives. Identified the appropriate budgeting strategy for the applicable situation. Considered timing / milestones in the budget cycle. Researched and resolved discrepancies in budget information. Entered, managed, and maintained / updated data in a timely and accurate manner utilizing applicable resources. Ensured that data in accounting and financial management systems are current. Recognized differences in fund sources and types (e.g., appropriated, non-appropriated / gift funds), and applied established Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience with budget management? Answer to this question is required I have prepared a budget for a discrete program or project. I have adhered to a budget for a discrete program or project. I have prepared a budget for an office. I have adhered to a budget for an office. I have prepared a budget for a division. I have adhered to a budget for a division. I have no practical experience with budget management. 11 Please indicate which of the following types of activities / tasks you have performed as part of your work experience. Answer to this question is required Supported the development of a budget for an organization or business unit. Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing a budget. Developed and presented budget requests with supporting justifications. Engaged in the Strategic/Tactical Planning process. Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units/organizations. Developed collateral material in support and justification of a budget. Recommended the allocation of resources. Applied financial analysis techniques to determine effect of strategic/tactical decisions. Used financial software and systems for developing budgets/forecasting. Performed budgeting at the local, state, and/or Federal level. Managed the budgeting process of a large complex organization. Presented and justified the request for budgeted resources for an organization. None of the above. 12 Please select the response that best describes your knowledge of the Congressional Budget Process: Answer to this question is required I have no experience, formal education, or training in performing this task. I have formal education or training in the various tasks in the Congressional budget process but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have experience in preparing budget requests and justifications for an office and presented justifications to management. I have experience formulating and consolidating Congressional budget justifications, consulting with the managers and staff members to ensure that strategic goals, program activities, performance indicators are properly reflected in the budget justificatication. I have planned, directed and administered the formulation and submission of Congressional Budgets, preparation of materials in support of Congressional testimony on the budget, participated in budget briefings to the Office of Management and Budget and Congressional staff, prepared formal responses to appropriator`s questions. 13 From the list below, indicate the statutes, regulations, administrative laws, policies, initiatives, or precedents you provide advisory services in an official capacity: Answer to this question is required Department of State Authorization Act Equivalent authorization acts for other Federal Departments or agencies The Capital Assets Planning Program. (Exhibit 300s) Chief Financial Officers (CFO) Act Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) FISMA President`s Management Agenda Budget and Performance Integration President`s Management Agenda: Improved Financial Performance Government Lines of Business Smith-Mundt Act Clinger-Cohen Act Prompt Pay Act Program specific legislation, such as the Patriot Act Federal Enterprise Architecture Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM) / Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH) Other agency regulations equivalent to the FAM Annual appropriation / authorization / supplemental acts Decisions of Administrative Law Judges ICASS policies and procedures A-76 and competitive sourcing A-11 Comptroller General Rulings / GAO Principles of Appropriation Law Joint Financial Management Improvement Program (JFMIP) Federal Financial Managers Improvement Act (FFMIA) Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) OMB Circular A-123 / Sarbanes-Oxler Act A-133 Government Management and Reform Act (GMRA) None of the above 14 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with automated financial management systems or software? Answer to this question is required I am a user of a system. As a user I have participated in testing a new automated system or an existing system. I have participated in implementing a new automated system or enhancing an existing system. I led implementation of a new automated system or enhancement of an existing system. None of the Above. 15 Please select the response that best describes your highest level of knowledge of computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training with computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning. I have completed formal education or training in computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have used computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in using computer systems and software that enhances financial management and planning and (or) others have consulted me as an expert. 16 Which of the following best reflect your ability to perform quantitative analysis and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this area. I have formal undergraduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in a work situation. I have formal graduate level education / training in this area. However, I have not yet performed quantitative analysis and evaluation in work situations. I have formal education/ training and work experience in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures. I have performed quantitative analysis and evaluation as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. Performing quantitative analysis and evaluation has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently. I have trained others in performing quantitative analysis and evaluation and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.