Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet any of the below-listed requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Graduation from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. AND Successful completion of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification. AND For all grade levels and positions, applicants must possess and electronically upload proof of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload transcripts, proof of certification and license or registration at the time you apply. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirements. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirements. In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must meet the following requirements: Have a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. This vacancy announcement is for a position that has educational transcripts, certification, and proof of license requirements. The educational transcripts, certification, and license will be utilized in the agency credentialing requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications. 2 Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section? Answer to this question is required Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation. No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided. 3 Do you meet the educational and experience requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the educational and experience requirements for this position. Applicants must electronically upload proof of completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program at the time you apply. No, I do not meet the educational and/or experience requirements for this position. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicants must have one year of experience in a mental health setting as a medical professional. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume. 4 Do you meet the selective factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must evaluate the health care needs of mental health patients with both acute and chronic psychiatric and medical health concerns, diagnose and prescribe the appropriate treatments and medications in an outpatient setting. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have acted in direct roles in an inpatient and outpatient setting (i.e. assessment and intervention); and/or I have independently diagnosed and managed patients with multiple, complex, chronic and acute psychiatric and medical problems; and/or in the absence of a physician, I have worked as a Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner in an outpatient setting. I have acted in indirect roles in an outpatient setting (i.e. consultation, case management, supervision); and/or I have served as a consultant or educator for families and staff; and/or I have functioned as lead/therapist in group and individual counseling sessions. I have evaluated the need for pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic interventions for mental illnesses; and/or I have participated in group counseling sessions; and/or I have effectively utilized differential diagnosis process to problem solve in the emergent situation. None of the above. 6 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must appropriately assess the inmate patient's history and disease processes/disorders and prescribe appropriate medication as they pertain to the psychiatric and medical components of the patient. The Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioner's assessment is critical in this area because improper dispensing of medicine may cause negative side effects or have fatal results. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared non-formulary requests for medications; and/or I have monitored patients for medication side effects and made recommendations for appropriate changes; and/or I have educated behavioral health patients on medication side effects; and/or I have acquired yearly certification-required amount of Continuing Medical Education credits in psychiatric pharmacology. I have, with physician supervision, adjusted psychiatric medication regimens to include dosage adjustment; and/or, with physician supervision, I have ordered and evaluated laboratory tests related to psychiatric medication side effects and diagnoses; and/or, with physician supervision, I have managed medications for patients with singular medical or psychiatric disorders such as mild depression or anxiety. I have initiated and adjusted psychiatric medication regimens to include dosage adjustment of chronic health medications where applicable; and/or I have ordered and evaluated psychiatric and medical diagnostic laboratory tests in order to make appropriate changes in medication regimens; and/or I have independently managed various types of medications for patients with multiple psychiatric and medical comorbid conditions. None of the above. 7 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must evaluate and interpret diagnostic test results, make diagnostic impressions based on those test results, and prescribe the appropriate treatment as it pertains to the psychiatric patient. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ordered and evaluated psychiatric treatment procedures; and/or I have made referrals to Interventional Psychiatry and monitored progress of patient condition; and/or I have conducted specialized procedures and tests and addressed abnormal results. I have ordered and evaluated laboratory, radiological, and therapeutic treatment tests as they apply to contributing psychiatric and medical diagnoses; and/or, based on diagnostic values, I have made appropriate changes in medication regimens for both psychiatric and medical problems as necessary; and/or I have evaluated and treated patients requiring Interventional Psychiatry to monitor the progress of a patients condition. I have, with assistance, ordered specialized procedures and tests; and/or I have recommended referrals to psychiatrist or physician specialists; and/or I have educated patients regarding results of diagnostic tests or therapeutic interventions. None of the above. 8 Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners must relate and deal effectively with inmates from diverse backgrounds and cultures regarding medical and psychiatric health care issues/concerns. By providing guidance and counseling, Psychiatric Mid-Level Practitioners may positively impact inmate behavior patterns and attitudes towards personal health care. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided crisis intervention to patients with suicidal ideation; and/or I have diffused a crisis involving angry, violent, and/or manipulative patients; and/or I have led a support/self-help patient group. I have assisted with guiding group therapy sessions for mental health patients; and/or I have conducted patient interviews for medical and mental health history; and/or I have provided basic therapeutic intervention to patients in emotional distress; and/or I have discussed rationale for treatment modalities to enhance patient compliance; and/or I have validated patient understanding of medication and side effects and patient education. I have counseled noncompliant patients to accept treatment plans; and/or I have interviewed patients to evaluate for high risk health behaviors; and/or I have utilized interpreters to validate a patient’s understanding of both psychiatric and medical disease processes and treatment plans; and/or I have delivered care to medically complex patients with psychiatric disorders. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).