Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- business administration, industrial management, engineering, applied sciences, or other fields related to the position. OR B. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the methods, materials, machinery, and facilities used in industrial production operations (which may include exploration, extraction, refining, manufacturing, or processing). This knowledge may have been gained in work such as: Management or supervision of production operations. Industrial planning, industrial engineering, or plant engineering, involving determination of facilities and layout. Process or methods development involving production practices associated with chemical, mechanical, electronic, textile, or food industries. Development of specifications to define product requirements. Sales engineering or buying that required a comprehensive knowledge of production operations. Planning and administering industrial quality control and inspection systems and programs. Comprehensive survey and analysis of industrial operations, organization, capacity, etc. Interpreting and applying contract clauses and government acquisition regulations. Development of plans to determine material requirements and/or schedules for production management. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Production Control Managers must be knowledgeable in all phases of a manufacturing operation including production planning, production flow, inspection procedures, plant layout, equipment used, and specifications required. This knowledge is essential in making industrial recommendations relative to production flow patterns, equipment requirements, floor plans, and efficient production processes. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reported textile manufacturing problems and discrepancies to supervisor; and/or I have worked as a line supervisor in a factory; and/or I have assisted in the manufacturing of products typical to the manufacturing environment. I have developed a complex industrial process for a custom textile product line based on government and commercial standards; and/or I have coordinated textile factory requirements for a large scale contract which avoided delays in final delivery; and/or I have scheduled a complex textile project from inception to completion and ensured deadlines were met. I have inspected manufactured textile products to ensure compliance with specifications and drawings; and/or I have provided guidance on textile production procedures; and/or I have provided technical information by facilitating a training session to explain new product requirements, equipment, etc. None of the above. 4 Production Control Managers must be able to analyze, interpret, and apply a wide range of information. They are required to prepare correspondence and complex technical reports related to completed projects, which are used as reference material in support of manufacturing processes and procedures, prepare responses to inquiries, and convey information to staff, customers, and vendors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented quality trend analysis which included a conclusion to improve future production processes; and/or I have prepared determinations and findings that documented actions taken in contracts; and/or I have responded in writing to inquiries from vendors/customers on sensitive issues. I have prepared recurring manufacturing memorandums; and/or I have prepared basic graphs/charts depicting production flow; and/or I have prepared reports and correspondence for higher level approval. I have created status of orders for use by immediate supervisor; and/or I have collected information relative to the manufacturing of a specific product line to be used in the establishment of product costs; and/or I have prepared monthly reviews. I have prepared negotiation memorandums to address discrepancies in contracts; and/or I have presented quality cost analysis data indicating more cost efficient methods or justified additional expenditures; and/or I have prepared requests for proposals and cancellations; and/or I have created a report containing charts and cause/effect diagrams. None of the above. 5 Production Control Managers must interact and effectively communicate with corporate management, program managers, Executive Staff, representatives from other government agencies and private sector entities, peers, subordinates, and inmates. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have associated with clients at an industrial conference; and/or I have acted as a technical representative for a manufacturer; and/or I have presented data to upper management which resulted in significant cost saving measures being implemented. I have briefed staff in the office of an outcome of a project; and/or I have participated in staff meetings; and/or I have organized a company activity; and/or I have attended routine meetings, such as the weekly production meeting, etc.; and/or I have discussed routine manufacturing issues with workgroups; and/or I have provided daily safety briefings. I have discussed production related problems with managers; and/or I have presented recommendations for improvements to existing procedures that were subsequently implemented; and/or I have facilitated a meeting with vendors and/or employees on new equipment or possible future use of existing equipment; and/or I have provided answers to others about a particular project. I have negotiated price quotes to uncooperative/skeptical individuals requiring inventiveness, tact, and diplomacy; and/or I have discussed procurement issues with management officials; and/or I have identified, analyzed, and solve an issue involving management, vendors, customers, and contractors. None of the above. 6 Production Control Managers must be able to analyze and interpret information regarding a wide variety of manufacturing, as well as general production related issues. They must be able to logically and rationally formulate recommendations that enhance the manufacturing environment and provide management with indispensable decision making tools. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided background information and analysis that resulted in enhanced product lines; and/or I have presented recommendations and ideas to improve existing processes; and/or I have monitored and analyzed production information; and/or I have conducted analysis of production and manufacturing data that resulted in management's increased manufacturing goals. I have provided data analysis and recommendations regarding existing products and procedures; and/or I have presented information to local management based on review of information and data provided by various sources; and/or I have presented local staff and supervisors informational reports and data trends; and/or I have prepared manufacturing and production data for inclusion in reports. I have initiated/conducted market research and comparisons which resulted in new projects, product lines, or design enhancements; and/or I have analyzed new or existing data and conducted historical trend analysis for all levels of management; and/or I have provided recommendations or proposals to decision makers that positively impacted the organization and resulted in overall cost savings. None of the above. 7 Production Control Managers must possess an in-depth knowledge of government and commercial industrial standards and specifications to ensure that all products and factory procedures meet appropriate requirements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have applied government and commercial standards in modifying a product line to maintain competitiveness with the private sector; and/or I have developed an industrial process for a custom product line; and/or I have implemented a process in compliance with new standards. I have maintained a library of current government standards and specifications; and/or I have reviewed customer specifications to determine if they were in compliance with commercial industry standards and specifications; and/or I have participated in an Operational Review or perpetual audit. I have assisted customers in the interpretation of the FAR; and/or I have interpreted commercial standards to accurately schedule production deadlines; and/or I have provided guidance on government and commercial industrial standards and specifications to factory personnel during a production discrepancy. None of the above. 8 Production Control Managers must possess the ability to successfully accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously, adjusting priorities as needed to meet organizational needs. They must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure production requirements are met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned production process of a new product line from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the purchasing of resources (e.g., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions, etc.) required to implement a complex product line; and/or I have modified production line to meet an emergency requirement (e.g., halted normal production to produce emergency product and met shipping requirements). I have planned production processes to meet normal requirements; and/or I have recommended items for purchase; and/or I have met requirements of a single product line; and/or I have acted in the capacity of Factory Manager. I have modified production processes of an existing product line to meet customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements for a segment of a product line; and/or I have successfully met shipping requirements of multiple product lines. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).