Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to develop and organize records and information for a historical knowledge repository. ** Demonstrated experience in developing and organizing records and information for a historical knowledge repository. In the process, conducted the following: 1) developed and maintained a centralized digital repository of records; 2) managed collection and processing of primary and secondary historical sources and records; 3) consulted with subject matter experts to review and maintain contents of an archive; 4) made recommendations on historical value of records; 5) conducted research on topics and events of historical significance to supplement a historical body of knowledge repository; and 6) identified gaps in a repository's documentation and provided information for closing the gaps. Answer to this question is required Independently developed and organized records for a historical body of knowledge repository. In the process, conducted ALL of the above tasks. Independently or as part of a team, developed and organized records for a historical body of knowledge repository. In the process, conducted FIVE (5) or more of the above tasks. Independently or as part of a team, developed and organized records for a historical body of knowledge repository. In the process, conducted THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to conduct information research and knowledge management. ** Demonstrated ability and knowledge of information gathering, analysis, and synthesis in a historical study context. During research for historical projects: 1) developed definitions of the perimeters of the study; 2) developed phases of a working plan; 3) employed imagination and ingenuity in the location of source materials both notable and obscure; 4) exercised critical judgement in the development and presentation of the study; 5) endeavored to present an objective, comprehensive picture of the subject under consideration, taking into account the varied historical facts and perspectives reviewed; and 6) consulted and/or collaborated with other historians or subject matter experts for research. Answer to this question is required Independently demonstrated ability and knowledge of information gathering, analysis, and synthesis in a historical study context. During research, conducted ALL of the above tasks. Independently demonstrated ability and knowledge of information gathering, analysis, and synthesis in a historical study context. During research, conducted FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks. Independently or as part of a team, demonstrated ability and knowledge of information gathering, analysis, and synthesis in a historical study context. During research, conducted THREE (3) of the above tasks. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to communicate in writing. ** Produced clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized and understandable written products conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation for the development and maintenance of a knowledge repository. Written products included: 1) working plans; 2) summaries and synopsis of records and/or materials; 3) informative presentations; 4) guides and studies; 5) memoranda, including justifications for acquiring new or additional material for collections; 6) specifications and/or standards for repository materials; 7) technical processes applied in the preservation of records and sources; 8) correspondence; and 9) informative material for public distribution. Answer to this question is required Independently produced ALL of the above documents related to the development and maintenance of a knowledge repository. Independently or under minimal supervision, produced SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above documents related to the development and maintenance of a knowledge repository. Independently or under minimal supervision, produced FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above documents related to the development and maintenance of a knowledge repository. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to perform liaison duties. ** Established and maintained professional work relationships and exchanged information with diverse audiences inside and outside an organization. Coordinated with collection curators and staff in other organizations or libraries concerning the transmission, handling, description, and retention of records and materials. Served as a point of contact with other offices to ensure the continuity of workflow. Presented information to groups and/or individuals related to a historical knowledge repository for an organization. Answer to this question is required Established and maintained professional and cooperative work relationships to provide and exchange information with diverse audiences inside and outside an organization. Coordinated with historians and historical record curators and staff in other organizations or libraries concerning the transmission, handling, description, and retention of records and materials. Presented information related to a historical knowledge repository for an organization. Worked to maintain personal contacts and cooperative work relationships to provide and exchange information regarding an organization's historical knowledge repository. Coordinated with historians and historical record curators and staff concerning the transmission, handling, description, and retention of materials. Presented information related to a historical knowledge repository for an organization. Worked to maintain personal contacts and cooperative work relationships to provide and exchange information regarding an organization's historical knowledge repository. Coordinated with historians and staff concerning the transmission, handling, description and/or retention of materials. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to perform client services and outreach activities. Performed client services and outreach duties with individuals inside and outside the organization. This included: 1) providing clear, digestible, and accurate responses to inquiries; 2) participating in professional meetings, conferences, publications, and/or scholarly or civic events; 3) providing consultations with scholars and other contacts at other organizations regarding area of expertise; and 4) providing direction to clients for fulsome and comprehensive research on specific subjects. Answer to this question is required Routinely performed client services and outreach activities in scholarly or academic settings, at non-profits, public policy organizations or corporations, or other historic institutions. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; educating clients and contacts about the products, services, or resources that best meet their needs; and resolving issues with service delivery. In doing so, performed ALL of the above items. Performed client services and outreach activities in scholarly or academic settings, at non-profits, public policy organizations or corporations, or other historic institutions. This included providing an overview of products, services, and resources and connecting clients to relevant products, services, and resources. In doing so, performed TWO (2) or THREE of the above items. Occasionally performed client services and outreach activities in scholarly or academic settings, non-profits, public policy organizations or corporations, or other historic institutions. This included citing examples of products, services, or resources and referring clients to supervisor when appropriate. In doing so, performed TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above items. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).