Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience installing carpet. Answer to this question is required I have assisted a senior worker with carpet installation. I have independently measured and installed carpet. I have independently measured and installed carpet with patterns. None of the above. 3 Do you have experience fabricating draperies and top treatments? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience upholstering furniture. Answer to this question is required I have stripped fabric and padding from furniture. I have repaired springs, re-padded furniture, and attached fabric to achieve the contour and fabric covering requested by the customer. I have repaired springs, re-padded furniture, and attached patterned fabric to achieve the contour and design focal point requested by the customer. I have repaired springs, re-padded furniture, and attached fabric to achieve a tufted contour and fabric design requested by the customer. None of the above. 5 Which tools have you used to upholster items? Answer to this question is required Tack hammer Shears Clinch-it tool Webbing stretcher Tufting tool Pneumatic or manual stapler Screw driver Hog ring upholstery tool Utility knife Impact driver Curved/straight needles Foam cutter None of the above 6 Have you operated a blind cutting machine to cut blinds to the proper size for a window opening? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 7 Which machines have you used to install carpet? Answer to this question is required Binding Machine Seaming iron Carpet cutting machine Carpet serger Power stretcher None of the above 8 Which tools or equipment have you used to install draperies? Answer to this question is required Ladders / scaffolding Hydraulic lifts Tape measures Hammer drills Fasteners / Hardware None of the above 9 Which types of work orders have you read and interpreted? Answer to this question is required Instructions for carpet installation Requests for the repair / recovering of upholstered furniture Requests for the repair / creation of draperies Requests for the installation of blinds Instructions for sound proofing walls None of the above 10 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience evaluating the framework of upholstered furniture for repair. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience evaluating the framework of upholstered furniture for repair. I have assisted a senior worker by removing fabric coverings and padding to check for loose joints or springs. I have independently checked the framework for loose joints and springs. I have independently checked the framework for cracks and proper techniques for tying springs. 11 Which of the following upholstery tasks have you independently performed ? Answer to this question is required Making drapes Hanging drapes Designing special pillows for chairs Cutting and patching rugs Laying rugs Laying cushions Hanging venetian blinds Re-taping venetian blinds Installing carpets None of the above 12 For which of the following purposes have you read and interpreted carpet, fabric or upholstery specifications? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required To line up patterns. To install borders/insets in specified locations. To select the durable materials. To select materials with stretch. To remove stains. None of the above. 13 Which tasks have you performed while measuring a room for carpeting? Answer to this question is required Laid out a grid for carpet tiles Determined area for roll carpet installation Estimated carpet needed Estimated tack strips needed None of the above 14 Which tasks have you performed to layout tufting and fabric for the upholstery of tufted furniture? Answer to this question is required Created a diamond pattern Laid out bands in tufting Attached fabric with buttons Lined up fabric patterns None of the above 15 Which tasks have you performed to layout fabric for an upholstery or drapery project using patterned fabric? Answer to this question is required Determined fabric repeat Lined up the pattern focal point Lined up a fabric pattern Lined up a drop pattern None of the above 16 Which upholstery tasks have you independently performed? Answer to this question is required Measure irregular surfaces to determine cover dimensions Measure curved contours to determine cover dimensions Make rough sketches of cover pieces Develop patterns and templates Make cutting layouts Make difficult math calculations (i.e. computing dimensions, laying out circles, angles, curves etc.) None of the above 17 Which fabrics have you used to upholster items or sew draperies? Answer to this question is required Canvas Leather Silk Sheer fabric Nylon Velvet Embroidered material Vinyl Interfacing Black out lining None of the above 18 Which upholstery components have you installed or repaired? Answer to this question is required No-sag springs Coil springs Webbing None of the above 19 Which chemicals have you used to install or maintain the appearance of carpet? Answer to this question is required Adhesive remover Pressure sensitive adhesive Spray adhesive Multi-purpose adhesive Latex seam sealer Protective film None of the above 20 Which safety equipment have you used on the job? Answer to this question is required Steel toe boots Protective eye wear Mask/respirator Work gloves Coveralls None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.