Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have graduated from a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained with an undergraduate or graduate degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. My degree is in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. I do not have the education as described in the above statements. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet the qualification requirements, as described in the announcement, to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the GS-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, as described in the Requirements section of the announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience applying data analysis to management of digital and web platforms? Answer to this question is required I have performed analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have synthesized recommendations based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have formally evaluated platforms based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have employed and implemented recommendations based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have presented recommendations to senior-level stakeholders based on analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). I have successfully trained others on the analysis of digital and web analytics data (e.g. Adobe Analytics, Google Analytics, IBM Coremetrics). None of the above. 2 Choose the answer(s) that describe your experience with data analysis tools: Answer to this question is required None of the above. Writing macros in Microsoft Excel (or similar function). Pivot tables in Microsoft Excel. Linked databases in Microsoft Access. Using ODBC sources in Microsoft Access. Complex queries in Microsoft Access. 3 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience synthesizing data and drawing conclusions? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience in synthesizing data and drawing conclusions. I have training or education related to synthesizing information into a written document, but have not yet had the opportunity to perform this task on the job. I have synthesized information into a written document as a member of a collaborative group. I have synthesized information into a written document with supervision. I have synthesized information into a written document independently. 4 Select the statement which BEST reflect your experience with the design, development, implementation, and management of database applications. Answer to this question is required I have collected functional requirements and business rules which dictate the operation of a database application from other IT professionals. I have collected functional requirements and business rules which dictate the operation of a database application from the intended users of the database application. I have provided technical updates via oral and written communication on the progress of the design, development, implementation, and management of database applications to management. I have created end-user guides and/or instruction manuals on the functioning of the database application. I have written status reports for management on technical database related projects. I have designed and created sophisticated relational databases for implementation. None of the above 5 Which of the following choices best describes your experience in the data management arena? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in data management processes I have functioned as a data steward I have established naming conventions for an organization I have implemented data management policies I have established a full data management program for an organization 6 With which of the following technologies do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Microsoft SharePoint Microsoft Power Automate Microsoft Power Apps Microsoft SharePoint Framework Microsoft Graph Microsoft PowerShell Microsoft Visual Studio Microsoft Azure DevOps Google Suite / Google Sites Git / GitHub Micro Focus Solutions Business Manager (SBM) ServiceNow SalesForce Microsoft Power BI Tableau Desktop / Server R Studio / R Shiny Microsoft Dynamics None of the above 7 Which of the following choices best reflects the type of database management functions you have performed? Answer to this question is required I have not managed databases I have managed a single database I have managed multiple databases I have managed multiple disparate databases I have managed multiple disparate databases that were integrated 8 Which of the following best represents your level of experience with the integration of data from a variety of sources in order to make decisions? Answer to this question is required Produced a technical paper or policy report that relays findings in a larger context Analyzed a variety of estimates, trends and/or results to explain a specific issue Produced empirical studies and/or estimates and results Collected and organized relevant data to address a specific issue I have no experience in performing these tasks. 9 Which of the following BEST reflects your level of experience in data-sharing activities? Answer to this question is required I have no experience or training in data-sharing activities. I have experience as a team member on a data-sharing task. I have experience managing a data-sharing task between applications via peer-to-peer techniques. I have experience managing a data sharing task between disparate systems residing in different agencies or organizations. I have experience managing a data sharing task between disparate systems via an integrated EAI (Enterprise Application Integration) suite of tools. I have experience managing a data sharing task to establish an enterprise-wide ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) for the sharing of data in a standard, controlled environment. 10 Which of the following choices best describes your experience in the data management arena? Answer to this question is required I have not participated in data management processes. I have functioned as a data steward. I have established naming conventions for an organization. I have implemented data management policies. I have established a full data management program for an organization. I have implemented processes and procedures in order to track and manage data or information. 11 From the following list identify those types of information products you have prepared using research or analytic techniques: Answer to this question is required College term paper Thesis Dissertation Research grant proposal Journal / newspaper articles Standardized reports Position papers Policy documents Teaching/ instrumental aids Talking points Speeches None of the above 12 I have employed the following quantitative methods for measuring the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of administrative and technical programs. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Creating and maintaining databases Correlation data analysis Graphic data analysis Calculation of relevant rates and percentages Manipulation of formulas in Excel or in other database formats Other None of the above 13 From the following list of data analyses software tools, please identify those that you have successfully used to interpret data: Answer to this question is required R Python Scala Julia SPSS S-PLUS Stata MS-Excel D3 (data driven-documents) MATLAB or Mathematica Data applied Tableau e-Spatial ArcGIS Google-Charts/Google Maps RapidMiner KNIME None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.