Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of education or experience related to the role of Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters. I have education or training related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters, but have not yet applied it in a work situation. I have performed work related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed work related to the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have trained others in the role of the Department of State in visa, passport and/or immigration matters and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 2 Please choose the statement below that BEST describes your supervisory and/or leadership experience: Answer to this question is required I have been responsible for negotiating the scope and objectives of projects, agency policy, operating agreements, or similar assignments through the direction of a subordinate staff of supervisors. I have been responsible for assigning, developing, planning, and coordinating the work of a subordinate staff on multiple programs, policies, or related work through the direction of a subordinate staff of supervisors. I have experience directing mid- to senior-level staff providing guidance and overall administrative direction of work performed. I have directed staff comprised of a mix of professional, clerical, and technical employees as a first line supervisor assigning work, defining the objectives, and requirements for the completion of work. I have no supervisory experience, but have served as a team or project leader for department-wide initiatives (programs, projects, agreements, etc,) that may have significant impact on the department / organization's overall goals. I have not had any of the above supervisory / leadership experience. 3 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.