Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements, choose the one response that best describes your experience as it pertains to requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one full-time year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to next lower grade level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of the position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. I do not meet experience requirement as described. 2 Choose one answer which best describes your experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level. Answer to this question is required I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. I have a combination of education AND experience that together meet the basic requirements. College level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practice, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering listed above. I do not meet the education or experience requirement as described. 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with coordinating and evaluating building phases? Answer to this question is required I have coordinated and evaluated single phases of construction I have coordinated and evaluated multiple phases of construction I have coordinated and evaluated multiple phases of construction for more than one project simultaneously I have not coordinated and evaluated phases of construction 4 Which of the following categories best described the type of buildings you have experience managing or overseeing construction or renovation of? Answer to this question is required Homes Schools Commercials properties Office buildings Museums Other cultural facilities I do not have experience managing or overseeing construction or renovation 5 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships among organizations and across departments? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners in a museum setting. I have experience in managing large and complex collaborative projects and partnerships with both external and internal partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with only external partners. I have experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships but only with only internal partners. I do not have any experience managing collaborative projects and partnerships. 6 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience balancing competing priorities among multiple simultaneous projects and ensuring self and others meet deadlines and produce deliverables as necessary for project success? Answer to this question is required I have independently managed multifaceted, simultaneous projects that required skillful and diplomatic balancing of competing priorities, resulting in successful completion of concurrent projects on time and within budget. I have been a key team member on projects for which I managed concurrent schedules and balanced competing priorities between projects, resulting in the successful completion of projects. I have worked on a project that involved managing schedules for self and others, determining priorities, and coordinating with project members to meet deadlines and contribute to project success. I do not have experience managing multiple simultaneous projects, schedules, and priorities. 7 Have you worked as a construction manager in a Design or Construction program on one or more projects greater than $20 million or larger that had national historic significance or public buildings, offices, academic buildings, medical or research laboratories, hospitals, etc.? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following tasks have you performed as they relate to construction project schedules? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have created construction schedules I have read and followed construction schedules I have evaluated construction schedules for logic errors and time line conflicts I have managed construction schedules keeping projects on time I have analyzed and updated construction schedules based on project progress I do not have experience with construction project schedules 9 Which of the following tasks have you performed in relation to construction activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have monitored construction at all phases - design, bid, execution, close out-- to identify major problems. I have recommended changes in design, specifications, and construction schedules to accommodate conditions at a construction site. I have prepared engineering data for contract change orders I have reviewed cost breakdowns, progress measurement data, and reports of material used to determine the adequacy and validity of the data. I have assured that necessary tests on materials, equipment, and workmanship are being conducted. I have updated shop drawing submittal registers to track submission, review, and approval of contractor shop drawings. I have collected field data for preparing cost estimates. I have determined contractor payments by computing estimates showing the percentage of work completed and amount due and payable. None of the above 10 What purpose or entity were you providing inspection services for? Answer to this question is required Code compliance Quality control Bank or other lender Developer or builder Owner Architect I have not provided inspection services 11 Which of the following construction management duties do you have experience (Federal or other) performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed cross-disciplinary quality control and coordination review of construction drawings and specifications for design projects with complex architecture and engineering scope. I have reviewed construction drawings, specifications, calculations, diagrams, etc. for conformance with architectural/engineering professional best practices, technical correctness, code compliance, and conformance with project programmatic requirements for building design and construction. I have performed constructability review of construction drawings and specifications. I have developed project budgets. I have resolved unique phasing requirements with relation to the renovation of occupied buildings. I have implemented historic preservation concepts relating to the renovation of major monumental public buildings and spaces of national significance. None of the above. 12 Which of the following content areas do you have experience evaluating against? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Compliance with contract requirements Compliance with engineering/architectural standards Compliance with Federal, state and local construction codes None of the above 13 Which of the following best described your experience working with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR)? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge of or experience with FAR. I have a basic knowledge of FAR but have never used it on the job. I have used the FAR as it relates to developing contract proposals. I have used the FAR as it relates to management of Federal contracts. I have used the FAR as it relates to developing contract proposals and management of Federal contracts. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience with advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have not had experience, education or training in concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance. I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 15 Which of the following statements describe your experience leading or supervising? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have review subordinate’s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employee. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated employees. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. None of the above 16 Which of the following best describes your experience providing information and instructions to staff and contractors? Answer to this question is required I have communicated effectively as a member of a team I have provided job related advice or recommendations to coworkers I have provided formal technical instructions to others I have developed work assignments for and coordinated others as supervisor None of the above 17 What is your level of technical leadership experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have communicated the technical and programmatic plan to individuals on a technical team. I have provided technical leadership and direction to a technical team. I have generated technical project plans, led technical teams, and been responsible for performance. I have been the task lead for a specific technical area of a larger project. I have had total engineering responsibility for a project or major subsystem. None of the above 18 Which of the following tasks have you performed as part of your job on a regular basis? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Composed job related written correspondence Kept logs or records in spread sheet format Writing technical reports for the purpose of documentation or further investigation Prepared formal written instructions or procedures for use by others Created formal written guidelines or policies that impact others performance None of the above 19 Do you have experience studying blueprints and specifications to trace potential problems and arrive at solutions or make recommendations for design change and/or substitution of materials? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Have you authored, supervised, managed or directed complex project, program, information or decision papers/reports that have been staffed or reviewed by upper management, agency heads, or department level clients or users? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Which of the following types of individuals do you have experience communicating verbally with as part of your job? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Professors and university advisers Administrative staff Architects and engineers Construction contractors Construction management staff Museum professionals None of the above 22 Which of the following best described your level of involvement in project meetings? Answer to this question is required I have attended project meetings to receive instructions I have participated in project meetings by offering input I have assisted in the coordination and management of project meetings I have coordinated and led project meetings I do not have experience with project meetings but am willing to learn 23 Which of the following best describes your experience delivering presentations? Answer to this question is required I have delivered presentations in an academic setting. I have delivered and defended a design presentation to an audience of experts or faculty in an academic setting. I have assisted with delivering a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I have independently delivered a design presentation in a professional setting either as an intern or an employee. I do not have experience making presentations 24 Have you presented or briefed complex project, program, information, or decision issues to upper management, agency heads, or department level clients or users? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.