Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 GS-12: Applicants must meet one of the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education OR combination of education and experience AND indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A) I have 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position AND I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university. B) I have 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position AND I have completed 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. C) I have 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position AND I have completed 24 semester hours of "graduate" level education in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. D) I have continuously occupied my position, which is classified in the GS-1102 series, since January 1, 2000 AND I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. 1 Based on your review of the basic qualifications listed above for the GS-12 grade level, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education, experience OR combination of education and experience. Answer to this question is required A B C D I do not meet any of the basic qualification requirements described above. 2 Please indicate the position title(s), organization, and dates of employment where you acquired the necessary specialized experience and/or the dates, name of the college / univeristy, and major field of study where you acquired the educational requirements. (Do not paste your resume here.) Maximum length of 550 characters. Answer to this question is required Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.