Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to lead and manage staff.** Supervised or led a team of information professionals in a library, information center, or research organization, and in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) participated in assessing current and future staffing and/or project team needs; 2) assisted with recruiting, hiring, and training staff and/or project team members; 3) when necessary, took action to remove employees or change composition of a project team; 4) held staff and/or project team accountable for meeting established performance standards; 5) ensured that work of staff and/or project team was appropriately delegated; 6) provided regular constructive feedback and coaching toward goal attainment; 7) provided opportunities for job enrichment and advancement; 8) encouraged the active participation of employees or team members in planning and decision-making; and 9) identified and implemented methods to improve staff and/or project team productivity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for a team of information professionals in a library, information center, or research organization, and, in doing so, exercised all of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for a team of information professionals in a library, information center, or research organization, and, in doing so, exercised MOST of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. Served as an ACTING SUPERVISOR, PROJECT TEAM LEADER, or equivalent in a library, information center, or research organization, and, in doing so, exercised SOME of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to apply knowledge of information resources relevant to public policy.** Applied knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of information research and reference relevant to public policy, with emphasis on domestic social policy, to achieve program results. This included overseeing or conducting information research in public policy issues with an emphasis on domestic social policy. This also includes knowledge of authoritative information resources: A) congressional, legal, regulatory, or budget documents; B) sources of program definition, program financial data, and demographics from government agencies; and C) the most current electronic resources relevant to domestic social policy. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of authoritative information resources relevant to environment and natural resources, physical sciences, and agricultural or other industrial sectors using ALL of the information resources above as indicated by, for example, being the senior information professional specializing in several issue areas in a research organization library or information resource center. Applied expert knowledge of authoritative information resources relevant to environment and natural resources, physical sciences, and agricultural or other industrial sectors using MOST of the information resources above as indicated by, for example, being a senior information professional specializing in several issue areas in a research organization library or information resource center. Applied expert knowledge of authoritative information resources relevant to environment and natural resources, physical sciences, and agricultural or other industrial sectors using SOME of the information resources above as indicated by, for example, being a senior information professional specializing in a single issue area. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to apply knowledge of information research within public policy research frameworks.** Applied knowledge of librarianship and information science to integrate information research with public policy analysis. Applied these approaches and frameworks, methodologies and techniques to the evaluation of complex issues. This also includes the willingness to acquire new skills and knowledge by staying current in information research methods and techniques pertinent to public policy. Interpreted results of information research for use by senior-level audiences ranging from expert to layman. Research methodologies include: 1) utilizing knowledge of current and emerging research strategies, methodologies, and sources; 2) familiarity with qualitative or quantitative resources or databases to produce information; 3) contacting subject matter experts at federal, state, and local levels; and 4) assessing the scope and limitations of data. Answer to this question is required Directed information research efforts by information professionals to support the analysis of complex public policy issues and, in so doing, used MOST of the methodologies above. Critically reviewed information research approaches and frameworks used by information professionals to support the analysis of complex public policy issues and, in so doing, used MOST of the methodologies above. Played a significant role as a key team member in the implementation of information research efforts to support the analysis of complex public policy issues and, in so doing, used SOME of the methodologies above. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to lead and inspire change.** The ability to lead tasks and people effectively and inspire change in developing and implementing an organizational vision that integrates key goals, priorities, values, etc. This includes promoting ideas with enthusiasm, conviction, and assertiveness; soliciting and considering others&rsquo; opinions; gaining support and commitment from others; motivating and inspiring others; and embracing and championing change. Answer to this question is required Had sole responsibility for leading multiple change efforts impacting information professionals and their clients/partners. Had sole responsibility for leading a single change effort impacting information professionals and their clients/partners. As a key member of a project team, led a component of a SINGLE change effort impacting information professionals and their clients/partners. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to interact collaboratively with others.** Worked, cooperated, and developed professional relationships with others to accomplish goals and articulate problems and issues within a library, information center, or research organization (e.g., think tanks, large federal research organizations, law libraries, corporate libraries, news libraries). This included actively seeking others&rsquo; input and contributing own expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility within a library, information center, or research organization, LED MULTIPLE COMPLEX collaborative efforts ACROSS divisions/departments with research professionals (e.g., analysts, attorneys, and information professionals) to develop research products. As a KEY TEAM MEMBER within a library, information center, or research organization, collaborated with research professionals (e.g., analysts, attorneys, and information professionals) ACROSS divisions/departments on MULTIPLE COMPLEX efforts to develop research products. As a KEY TEAM MEMBER within a library, information center, or research organization, collaborated with research professionals (e.g., analysts, attorneys, and information professionals) ACROSS divisions/departments on a SINGLE COMPLEX effort to develop research products. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products in the area of information management (e.g., knowledge management, information research, collection development, curriculum development and training for information users). Examples include: 1) policies and procedures, 2) planning documents, 3) reports, 4) memoranda, 5) project plans and proposals. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote MOST of the above documents in the area of information management. As a coauthor or collaborator, wrote MOST of the above documents in the area of information management. As a coauthor or collaborator, wrote SOME of the above documents in the area of information management. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).