Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position. Degree: social work. Must fulfill all of the requirements for the master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. Master's degree with practicum: &nbsp;Applicants who complete all of the requirements for a master's degree in social work that included a practicum are eligible for GS-9. 1 Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education that included a practicum. No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Social Worker must have the ability to collect information from a variety of sources, organize the information, identify problems and recommend action.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have assisted in compiling data from written/oral assessments; and/or I have maintained information on clients/patients; and/or I have organized records and updated database files. I have gathered basic information within a social work setting; and/or I have collected technical data and provided recommendations to supervisors; and/or I have assisted others with problem-solving strategies. I have utilized various problem-solving strategies in the mental health field; and/or I am knowledgeable in research methods; and/or I have collected data from a client population. None of the above. 3 The Social Worker is a team member who must be able to effectively communicate and coordinate information with the outside agencies, administration, physicians, inmates and co-workers.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have attended agency team meetings; and/or I have provided/shared information with various individuals within the department; and/or I have provided feedback in meetings related to social work. I have attended interdisciplinary team meetings; and/or I have provided/shared information with other departments in institution; and/or I have participated in department level meetings. I have ensured lines of communication were kept open with individuals both internal/external to the Agency; and/or I have participated in interdisciplinary team meetings; and/or I have provided information to other organizations within the agency; and/or I have provided guidance and interacted with groups of people. None of the above. 4 The Social Worker must have current knowledge of the principles, philosophies, and professional values related to the field of social work and how they relate to a correctional environment.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have assisted in performing social work assessments; and/or I have observed treatment teams; and/or I have studied various types of clinical interventions. I have performed assessments or evaluations; and/or I have followed professional standards in a clinical setting; and/or I have assisted in making a treatment plan and made suggestions. I have observed creation of social work assessments; and/or I have observed creation of treatment plans; and/or I have reviewed different types of interventions. None of the above. 5 The Social Worker must have the ability to work with inmates in a therapeutic environment.&nbsp; This includes direct contact with inmates and their families often for purposes of conducting therapy sessions.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have observed group dynamics within a clinical setting; and/or I have observed group and/or individual sessions utilizing clinical practice theories; and/or I have reviewed educational lesson plans. I have assisted in therapeutic group facilitation; and/or I have worked with individuals in a therapeutic capacity; and/or I have been involved in utilizing educational lesson plans. I have led individual or group counseling sessions; and/or I have assisted in counseling to groups with various ethnic and demographic backgrounds; and/or I have involved in the development of educational lesson plans. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).