Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 3.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 3.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 3.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 3.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 4 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completed assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 4.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 4.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 5 The Health Informatics Specialist will assist the Chief, Health Information Management, with translating healthcare delivery workflow processes and various healthcare provider requirements into a national clinical information system.&nbsp; This clinical information system will encompass all aspects of healthcare to ensure medical practices, community standards and protocols are followed. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have integrated the application of clinical practice guidelines and/or protocols to improve clinical care and patient safety; and/or I have developed and implemented policies, plans, or programs which significantly improved the quality of health care in a medical facility; and/or I have coordinated and/or provided training on current clinical issues or other health-related topics at a national level through conferences, symposium or Cisco WebEx application. I have provided training on clinical or administrative issues through the continuing medical education program and/or annual training; and/or I have established quality improvement plan for the health care organization; and/or I have designed a competency assessment program to ensure safe practices and current clinical knowledge of staff. I have assisted in the evaluation of internal health care programs and provided recommendations for improvements to health care delivery; and/or I have participated in mortality reviews and peer reviews of other staff members; and/or I have maintained professional affiliation with allied health educational programs and provided professional advice, instruction, or mentoring to students of these programs. None of the above. 6 The Health Informatics Specialist must be proficient in the use of various computer applications to assist in the development and implementation of a fully integrated national clinical information system.&nbsp; He/she will be required to provide end-user support and training in the use of the system as well as ongoing maintenance and oversight of the Bureau of Prisons Electronic Medical Record (BEMR).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters of Microsoft applications or other programs by entering data and running reports; and/or I have entered statistical data into an agency specific data base to accurately track information used by management; and/or I have manipulated information and data for use in presentations. I have participated in evaluation of software applications purchased for national, regional, or institution-wide use; and/or I have prepared a complex professional presentation which included slides, graphs, charts, etc., using multiple presentation software packages; and/or I have created Microsoft applications, Adobe Pro, or similar computerized database to monitor patient care activities. I have created detailed and technical presentations for management staff, meetings, conferences; and/or I have selected and implemented software programs used for specific medical applications such as laboratory results reporting, medical dictation/transcription, or utilization review; and/or I have programmed/set parameters to Microsoft software applications, Adobe Pro, or other programs. None of the above. 7 The Health Informatics Specialist will analyze all areas of the developing electronic medical record and work closely with the Office of Information Systems as well as clinical staff to improve program efficiency, resolve conflicts, and ensure smooth operations.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed key indicators or SENTRY data to compare operations with similar facilities; and/or I have analyzed information acquired through program reviews and other institutional audits and recommended improvements in policies and procedures or accrediting organizations (The Joint Commission (TJC) and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC)); and/or I have developed a checklist or tracking tool for aiding in the implementation of a policy or procedural change. I have conducted Improvement Organizational Performance (IOP) study and shared results with co-workers; and/or I have researched available policies and procedures, regulations and accrediting organizations (The Joint Commission (TJC) and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC)) to address issue(s)encountered; and/or I have reviewed and advised clinical and administrative staff regarding corrections to deficiencies found during periodic reviews. I have created outcome goals from clinical practice and interpreted data on the selected indicators; and/or I have identified patterns or trends in patient care and rated efficacy of treatment rendered; and/or I have researched comparative data with other organizations to compare operations or national data/trends. None of the above. 8 The Health Informatics Specialist will have contact with medical and administrative personnel in the institutions, region, and Central Offices to include Branch Chiefs, Regional Administrators, Wardens, and Associate Wardens as well as other government agency and private sector personnel.&nbsp; He/she is responsible for developing curriculum and presenting training in person or via distance learning and must possess comprehensive written and oral communication skills to effectively relay information to these targeted audiences. He/she must be able to create and publish training reference materials related to Bureau Electronic Medical Record (BEMR). &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared and provided instruction to all institution staff during Annual Training; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/CEO as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from executive staff within the Bureau of Prisons; and/or I have developed written response to audits. I have facilitated and/or organized and presented training at a national level through conferences, symposium, or Cisco WebEx application for administrative or medical staff on healthcare/technology topics; and/or I have prepared a variety of technical correspondence/reports/briefings for Executive Staff, administrators or other management officials on issues affecting the organization; and/or I have created and published training materials to use internally or with external stakeholders such as community hospitals or contractors. I have provided updates during department head meetings; and/or I have prepared/revised institution supplements or standard operating procedures; and/or I have served as editor of internal newsletter; and/or I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have provided subordinates with meaningful and accurate feedback on their performance. None of the above. 9 The Health Informatics Specialist will assist with design, modification, and enhancement of the Bureau of Prisons&rsquo; electronic medical record through participation and management of clinical advisory groups consisting of various patient care providers and ancillary department personnel.&nbsp; He/she must effectively interact with physicians, staff, and outside resources in order to ensure the effective development and use of the clinical information system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently negotiated with and resolved issues involving physicians, managers, and various departments within the institution; and/or I have coordinated institutional resources during periods where the workload and complexity was difficult to manage; and/or I have participated in institution strategic planning; and/or I have provided expert support to other institution departments to resolve specific operational issues. I have independently met with leaders of community health care facilities; and/or I have assisted regional or Central Office staff in the development of strategies to improve patient care and safety; and/or I have participated on national level committee to develop nationwide policy or long-range plans. I have chaired health services committee such as Improvement Organizational Performance (IOP)/Quality Management, Infection Control, or Medical Record Review; and/or I have monitored and prioritized workflow among department staff, making adjustments when necessary; and/or I have monitored and counseled staff, as needed, prior to significant problems emerging. None of the above. 10 The Health Informatics Specialist must possess thorough knowledge of applicable standards and regulations set forth by various regulatory authorities (The Joint Commission (TJC), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), Federal, State, Local), to ensure that the development of all electronic data capture processes is in compliance with all policies, programs, regulations, and other guidelines.&nbsp; This requires that he/she be familiar with policy and regulations, such as those concerning The Joint Commission (TJC) and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) standards, Bureau of Prisons national program statements, and federal privacy laws which impact institutional operations and procedures as related to the electronic health record. He/she must possess the ability to interpret and apply a wide variety of policy from several different disciplines. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided guidance/analysis and/or standards interpretation in preparation for The Joint Commission (TJC) or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) review at the institution level; and/or I have participated in audits at other institutions; nd/or I have conducted institution-wide training on standards or regulations. I have participated in an internal audit; and/or I have developed departmental procedures for compliance with regulatory and professional standards; and/or I have provided guidance/analysis and/or standards interpretation in preparation for The Joint Commission (TJC) or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) review at the departmental level. I have participated in a committee or task force which developed policies and procedures for medical care; and/or I have administered a health care program to achieve accreditation (The Joint Commission (TJC) and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC)); and/or I have provided input to the Central Office/regional committees/management for improvements for handling and processing health related data; and/or I have served as the coordinator for accreditation at an institution/facility. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).