Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 2 [54952] Do you have a valid U.S. Coast Guard license (Uninspected Passenger Vessel or greater)? You must provide supporting documentation so that we can verify your answer. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 [55782] Do you have experience in towing water craft? Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 [55778] Select the response that best describes your knowledge of small boat/craft exterior repairs. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I have experience in boat hauling, rigging, fiberglassing, sanding, caulking, scraping, and marine painting and refinishing obtained through work activities with the Saint Lawrence Seaway, USCG, Navy, Merchant Marine and/or other marine related work experience. I have experience in some of the tasks described in #1 above obtained through working in a small boat/craft repair facility. I have no experience in repairing the exterior of small boats/crafts. 5 [55777] Select the response that best describes the level of supervision you would need to operate watercraft. Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I require regular and frequent supervision, instruction and training to operate boats/vessels. I can operate boats/vessels with limited to some supervision, instruction and or training. I can operate boats/vessels under 35 feet with little to no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training at boats/vessels longer than 35 feet. I can operate boats/vessels up to 60 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training on boats/vessels longer than 60 feet. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to 60 feet with no supervision, instruction or training and am often looked to for guidance by others. I can operate boats/vessels up to 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, but may require supervision and training on boats/vessels longer than 120 feet. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, and am often looked to for guidance by others. I can comfortably operate boats/vessels up to and exceeding 120 feet with no supervision, instruction or training, and am often looked to for guidance by others. 6 [5159] Select the type(s) of boat/vessel propulsion with which you have experience. Answer to this question is required Single water jet Twin water jet Single screw Twin screw Outboard None of the above 7 [5150] Are you currently or have you ever been licensed to operate a boat? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 [5105] Select option that best describes your level of experience operating diesel and/or gasoline driven watercraft. Answer to this question is required I have never operated a diesel or gasoline driven watercraft. I have little to no experience in operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft, and will require direct supervision. I have some experience in operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft, but will require additional supervision. I have experience with operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft and require no supervision. I am very comfortable, experienced, and am often looked to for guidance in operating diesel and gasoline driven watercraft. 9 [55790] Select the navigation and/or communication equipment you have experience using. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Radar Loran Satellite Navigation Global Positioning System (GPS) Navigational charts Depth Finder Ham Radio Marine Radio Citizen's Band/Single Side Band radio None of the above 10 [55779] Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) Navigational Rules ("Rules of the Road"). Your level of expertise must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required I do not have any experience with the USCG Rules of the Road. I have had training on the USCG Rules of the Road, but have had little to no practical experience applying them. I consider my level of knowledge as a Beginner. I am familiar with and have some experience with the USCG Rules of the Road, but prefer to have guidance and supervision. I consider my level of knowledge as Average. I am comfortable with the USCG Rules of the Road and consider my level of knowledge as better than average. I require little to no guidance when applying the USCG Rules of the Road. I consider myself an expert on the USCG Rules of the Road and am often consulted by others for guidance and/or supervision. 11 [1033] I have successfully used, applied and or followed the following instruction methods and guidelines on the job: Answer to this question is required Instruction manuals Blueprints Sketches Specifications Arithmetic Verbal instructions Written instructions Standard procedures Mathmatical Calculations None of the above 12 [1031] Please indicate which of the following types of written instructions that you have worked with and interpreted. Answer to this question is required Blueprints Schematics Technical manuals Sketches Building plans Work requests None of the above 13 [5113] Choose the one statement listed below that most accurately describes your ability to work safely in adverse conditions (e.g., bad weather, over extreme heights, near water). Answer to this question is required I have had little to no experience working in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have had some instruction in general safety practices while working in adverse conditions, but have had little practical experience. I have applied my knowledge of general safety practices while working alone or with a partner in adverse conditions, such as inclement weather, from heights, over water and/or over ice. I have worked as a member of a team in a marine or construction environment using proper lifting and bending techniques, where there was a danger of falling from heights, and/or while working near water or ice, in all types of weather. 14 [55783] Select the type(s) of boats/vessels you have experience operating. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Passenger Ferry Tractor Tug Conventional tug boat Self-propelled crane barge Open boats up to 17 feet (ft) in length Recreational power boats 17 ft to 35 ft in length Crew boats 35 to 60 ft in length Crew boats 60 to 120 ft in length Crew boat in excess of 120 ft in length None of the above 15 [55784] Select the type(s) of water craft towing in which you have experience. Your level of experience with each choice selected must be documented in your resume. Answer to this question is required Ship assist Multiple Barge Units Single Barge Crane Barge Disabled vessels or other disabled watercraft None of the above 16 [55792] Select the condition type(s) in which you have operated a boat or vessel. Your overall experience must be documented and supported on your resume. Answer to this question is required Close maneuvering amongst larger vessels Making landings in various current and wind conditions High wind Rain Fog Choppy water After dark None of the above 17 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 18 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 19 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 22 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 23 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 24 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 25 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 26 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 27 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 28 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 28.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 28.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 28.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).