Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Toggle navigation CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Select the one answer that best describes your educational/experience background to meet the basic qualifications requirements for the IT Specialist, CT/GS-11, position. Note: In addition to meeting the basic entry qualifications, applicants must have specialized experience and/or directly-related education. Answer to this question is required I possess a bachelor’s degree as described in this vacancy announcement I possess one full year of graduate-level education. I am eligible for Superior Academic Achievement (SAA I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Grade: 09 1 Select the one answer that best describes your educational/experience background to meet the basic qualifications requirements for the IT Specialist, CT/GS-09, position. Note: In addition to meeting the basic entry qualifications, applicants must have specialized experience and/or directly-related education. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the CT/GS-09 which demonstrates experience I have a related PH.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have 3 full years of related progressively higher level graduate education leading to an equivalent Ph.D. or doctoral degree; or LL.M, if related. I have a combination of related education and specialized experience. I do not meet any of the education or experience/education combination options above. Grade: 11 1 Select the one answer that best describes your educational/experience background to meet the basic qualifications requirements for the IT Specialist, CT/GS-11, position. Note: In addition to meeting the basic entry qualifications, applicants must have specialized experience and/or directly-related education. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the CT/GS-09 which demonstrates experience I have a related PH.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have 3 full years of related progressively higher level graduate education leading to an equivalent Ph.D. or doctoral degree; or LL.M, if related. I have a combination of related education and specialized experience. I do not meet any of the education or experience/education combination options above. Grade: All Grades 1 This position has an in-person requirement of five days per week at your assigned duty station. Are you able to report to the office as required to your assigned duty station?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If yes, please note that you will be required to be in office on your first and last day to pick up and return any equipment provided to you during the internship.&nbsp; 2 I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).