Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Chief, Learning and Career Development Branch, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to executive and senior level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to interact, negotiate, persuade and provide information to others on the vision, mission and objectives of Learning and Career Development Branch and agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented an oral brief during a congressional subcommittee meeting on issues having major organization/agency impact; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with agency/organization union officials on national level bargaining issues/concerns; and/or I have chaired workgroups tasked with the responsibility of developing/modifying and implementing agency/organization-wide programs; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have made presentations/briefings at training programs; and/or I have provided on-site training and assistance to staff at their duty stations. I have served as a professional training liaison between the Bureau of Prisons and other private/public organizations; and/or I have represented the agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff by providing updated training information; and/or I have presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given informal presentations to the Executive Staff/management of an agency/organization; and/or I have provided guidance/advice to others regarding public affairs issues. I have represented division/unit/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel on training issues; and/or I have led a labor negotiation team; and/or I have actively participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization; and/or I have participated in the resolution of internal departmental issues; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/wardens/CEO’s, providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process. None of the above. 3 The Chief, Learning and Career Development Branch, must be a subject matter expert in all areas pertaining to correctional management and must be able to develop and administer training programs to all levels of management staff. He/she must have demonstrated leadership abilities and have the ability to effectively instruct management staff in these leadership abilities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have planned, developed and administered correctional training for management staff; and/or I have conducted analysis of new correctional training strategies and methodologies used in agency training programs; and/or I have analyzed and evaluated correctional instructional design applications on an ongoing basis; and/or I have independently developed reports for Executive Staff concerning the analysis results of the use of correctional training methodologies in program development for agency staff. I have administered correctional training for management staff; and/or I have ensured evaluation of correctional training classes by participants; and/or I have ensured needs assessments were conducted for all correctional employees; and/or I have revised correctional training strategies as needed. I have designed, developed, delivered and evaluated all training programs offered by Learning and Career Development Branch; and/or I have ensured that training programs are relevant and cost effective (and delivered in a manner that enhances the learning process); and/or I have served as a high-level Bureau of Prisons expert regarding national initiatives to enhance the structure and delivery of leadership training to Bureau of Prisons mangers and assistant CEOs on a nationwide basis. None of the above. 4 The Chief, Learning and Career Development Branch, is responsible for reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans and programs for basic and specialized training. He/she analyzes a variety of information and supplements from a variety of sources. He/she also analyzes a variety of corrections-specific issues and needs, as well as specific information regarding the education, training and developmental needs of the Executive, Senior Level leaders, managers, supervisors and trainers in the field. He/she is required and expected to discuss conclusions with executive and senior level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical educational, training and developmental issues and problems encountered. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a member of a task force charged with streamlining local policies/procedures; and/or I have reviewed key indicators to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the financial management office; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved program; and/or I have implemented plans, policies and/or programs which met identified needs and stayed within established budgetary constraints; and/or I have chaired a task force that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have analyzed a correctional problem, determined what technical assistance could alleviate the situation and arranged for technical assistance to be offered; and/or I have recommended a method to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations are maintained. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have arranged/coordinated local technical assistance/training programs to address correctional issues; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reviewed program review/operational reviews and ensured corrective action were initiated; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals; and/or I have analyzed and devised solutions for special needs which surfaced within an agency/organization; and/or I have managed the establishment of new agency/organization-wide training programs. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Learning and Career Development Branch, must effectively interact and communicate with persons inside the Bureau (local union officials, subordinates, peers, and executive staff) and persons outside the Bureau (the public, press, and staff of local, state, and other federal agencies and courts) in coordinating institution programs to fulfill the mission and objectives of the Bureau. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and initiated community outreach programs such as the community relations board and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) programs; and/or I have held a press conference; and/or I have worked with union officials to resolve labor-management relations issues; and/or I have participated in national or regional meetings and provided feedback on strategic planning. I have assisted in public relations activities such as open house for outside groups and tours; and/or I have served as a member of a committee or task force addressing issues affecting the organization or agency; and/or I have led an interpersonal communication course or supervisory training. I have spoken at civic events; and/or I have led committee meetings involving other federal and state agencies; and/or I have led a community outreach program such as the community relations board, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) programs; and/or I have mentored subordinate staff. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Learning and Career Development Branch, is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned division programs, the coordination of the mission of the branch and other related program activities and decision making which impacts overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product and/or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training needs in subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge and performance; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring programs. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. 7 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).