Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. To be considered for the position, you must meet the following basic qualification requirements: Education: Bachelor&rsquo;s Degree: An applicant must have a conferred 4-year course of study in any field leading to a bachelor's degree, in an accredited college or university. AND Ecclesiastical Endorsement: An Ecclesiastical Endorsement attests to the applicant's suitability for correctional ministry, support for his or her candidacy, a clear assurance statement that the applicant has no present or past legal or moral barrier to congregational ministry, and an affirmation that the applicant will facilitate inmates of all faiths opportunities to pursue individual religious beliefs and practices. The applicant's relationship to the endorsing body must reflect a minimum two-year association before endorsement. AND Religious Credentials: Applicants will be ordained clergy or members of ecclesiastically recognized religious institutes of vowed men or women. In lieu of professional ordination credentials, adequate documentation of the applicant&rsquo;s recognized religious and ministerial roles in their respective faith communities is required. 1 Do you meet the basic requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the basic requirements described above. No, I do not meet the basic requirements described above. In addition to the above Basic Requirements, applicants must meet the following qualification requirements: Education: A: Master&rsquo;s degree: Candidates must have a Master of Divinity or equivalent theological education. Equivalent theological education represented by a conferred degree comprised of no less than 72 semester hours of graduate coursework including: 20 semester hours in pastoral ministry; and 20 semester hours in any combination of theology, ethics, and philosophy of religion; and 20 semester hours in the study of sacred writings, including the study of languages in which sacred writings are/were written; and 12 semester hours in religious history and/or world religions. OR B:&nbsp;Professional Ministry Experience In lieu of Graduate Theological Degree: Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. Applicants who meet the Basic Requirements, but do not meet the graduate education requirement, may be found qualified with Professional Ministry Experience. 6,240 hours (3 years) of a combination of qualifying theological education, CPE units, and/or professional ministry experience. Note: Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. OR C: Combination of Education and Experience: Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. Combination of successfully completed graduate level education and/or professional ministry experience. 6,240 hours (3 years) of a combination of qualifying theological education, CPE units, and/or professional ministry experience. Note: A two-year conferred graduate theological or religious degree will qualify as 4,160 hours (2 years) of professional ministry experience. Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. 2 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit all educational transcripts and documents supporting being an Ordained Clergy and having an ecclesiastical endorsement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Chaplain is a pastoral care provider to inmates and staff. His/her presence should be seen in all areas of the institution to include housing units, special housing units, and staff work duty stations to ensure availability and pastoral presence. Pastoral care is to be extended to all inmates regardless of their faith tradition. Pastoral care to staff should be extended when appropriate. His/her work schedules are posted on chapel and inmate housing bulletin boards.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and organized religious services in a congregational setting; and/or I have counseled congregants during a crisis situation (i.e., grief, death, marriage and family issues, national disasters); and/or I have administered faith-appropriate sacraments, rites, and ceremonies that identify with their faith tradition. I have assisted bereavement/grief ministry by providing cards; and/or I have assisted with planning home visits to bereaved families; and/or I have assisted with creating care packages for indigent congregants; and/or I have participated in worship/religious services in a congregant setting. I have assisted with teaching a class on religious topics; and/or I have assisted with providing pastoral or spiritual support during a visitation to the sick in a hospital or home; and/or I have assisted in leading worship/religious services in a congregant setting. None of the above. 4 The Chaplain communicates in writing with staff, inmates and the community via memorandums, letters, emails, and responses to inmate needs. Solid writing skills are essential for clear and effective communication in all written correspondence. Written communication is essential in promoting the security and orderly running of religious programs in conjunction with all operations in the institution. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared religious service program and/or written synoptic of religious program(s) for congregation and/or bulletin; and/or I have written letter of interest for job application; and/or I have e-mailed group pertinent information related to a specific task. I have proofread and edited written publications for religious programming; and/or I have prepared a budget fund to meet the religious accommodation needs; and/or I have prepared memorandums outlining operating procedures for co-workers and/or new staff. I have assisted with writing correspondence as a group; and/or I have composed a draft letter for review; and/or I have successfully completed a writing course. None of the above. 5 The Chaplain communicates orally with inmates and staff by providing religious guidance and expertise regarding all religious issues. Communication with inmates, contract resource persons, volunteers, family members and outside religious organizations is essential to the mission of chaplaincy. He/she communicates during staff/departmental meetings, religious services, counseling sessions, daily interactions with inmates/staff and persons in the community.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered a sermon and worship service as part of a class or internship; and/or I have conveyed information for meeting agendas, worship bulletins and training sessions to supervisor; and/or I have presented a religious training class or study as part of an internship. I have taught Sunday School class and/or led religious study; and/or I have communicated to congregation/constituents during or about programmatic events/activities; and/or I have recited announcements and/or provided instructions during group session and/or religious events. I have communicated with congregants/constituents about scheduled appointments; and/or I have communicated congregants/constituents spiritual needs to ordained clergy; and/or I have prayed with individuals. None of the above. 6 The Chaplain relates to inmates, staff, resource persons, volunteers, and religious organizations in the community on a daily basis. Solid interpersonal skills are essential in relating appropriately and positively. His/her interpersonal skills must be able to deal effectively with religiously varied faith groups, inmate personal issues, crisis situations, religious needs, community resources, and institutional staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have researched core beliefs and practices of each faith group; and/or I have identified interfaith connections; and/or I have prepared draft overview and/or compiled list of credible scholarly resources. I have accessed and used information from various sources (i.e., web sites, community) regarding volunteer groups and faith organizations; and/or I have communicated the mission of Chaplaincy Services to various community organizations; and/or I have initiated positive relationship building with volunteer groups and faith organizations by personal interaction and communication. I have proofread an agenda and offered feedback to ensure a balanced representation; and/or I have managed invitations, coordinated meeting times, and provided logistical support; and/or I have participated in religious town hall meeting and/or business meeting; and/or I have assisted with community programs such as food bank, clothing drive, or homeless program. None of the above. 7 The Chaplain oversees programs, policy and procedures or may assist in planning, directing, coordinating, and evaluating policy in an independent manner. He/she is responsible for a variety of technical and complex assignments and must be able to prioritize workload to ensure assignments are completed in a timely manner and re-prioritize assignments as needed to meet the mission of the office. He/she may identify operational or program issues and initiate corrective action or recommend solutions with limited review and/or revision. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized checklist to complete assignments; and/or I have researched available resources to respond to inquiry received; and/or I have overseen workload and exceeded required deadlines. I have assisted with identifying religious literature to be used during a religious service; and/or I have assisted with compiling list of religious literature for distribution; and/or I have printed and/or copied literature for program; and/or I have assisted with setting up program space. I have reviewed bulletin for worship service; and/or I have planned religious study; and/or I have planned and evaluated volunteer schedule. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. To be considered for the position, you must meet the following basic qualification requirements: Education: Bachelor&rsquo;s Degree: An applicant must have a conferred 4-year course of study in any field leading to a bachelor's degree, in an accredited college or university. AND Ecclesiastical Endorsement: An Ecclesiastical Endorsement attests to the applicant's suitability for correctional ministry, support for his or her candidacy, a clear assurance statement that the applicant has no present or past legal or moral barrier to congregational ministry, and an affirmation that the applicant will facilitate inmates of all faiths opportunities to pursue individual religious beliefs and practices. The applicant's relationship to the endorsing body must reflect a minimum two-year association before endorsement. AND Religious Credentials: Applicants will be ordained clergy or members of ecclesiastically recognized religious institutes of vowed men or women. In lieu of professional ordination credentials, adequate documentation of the applicant&rsquo;s recognized religious and ministerial roles in their respective faith communities is required. 1 Do you meet the basic requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the basic requirements described above. No, I do not meet the basic requirements described above. In addition to the above Basic Requirements, applicants must meet the following qualification requirements: Education: A: Master&rsquo;s degree: Candidates must have a Master of Divinity or equivalent theological education. Equivalent theological education represented by a conferred degree comprised of no less than 72 semester hours of graduate coursework including: 20 semester hours in pastoral ministry; and 20 semester hours in any combination of theology, ethics, and philosophy of religion; and 20 semester hours in the study of sacred writings, including the study of languages in which sacred writings are/were written; and 12 semester hours in religious history and/or world religions. AND Professional Ministry Experience (Specialized Experience): Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. 2,080 hours (1 year) full-time specialized experience at the next lower grade. Note: Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. OR B: Professional Ministry Experience In lieu of Graduate Theological Degree: Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. Applicants who meet the Basic Requirements, but do not meet the graduate education requirement, may be found qualified with Professional Ministry Experience. 8,320 hours (4 years) of a combination of qualifying theological education, CPE units, and/or professional ministry experience. Note: Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. OR C: Combination of Education and Experience: Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. Combination of successfully completed graduate level education and/or professional ministry experience. 8,320 hours (4 years) of a combination of qualifying theological education, CPE units, and/or professional ministry experience. Note: A two-year conferred graduate theological or religious degree will qualify as 4,160 hours (2 years) of professional ministry experience. Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. 2 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit all educational transcripts and documents supporting being an Ordained Clergy and having an ecclesiastical endorsement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Chaplain is a pastoral care provider to inmates and staff. His/her presence should be seen in all areas of the institution to include housing units, special housing units, and staff work duty stations to ensure availability and pastoral presence. Pastoral care is to be extended to all inmates regardless of their faith tradition. Pastoral care to staff should be extended when appropriate. His/her work schedules are posted on chapel and inmate housing bulletin boards.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have designed and organized religious services in a congregational setting; and/or I have counseled congregants during a crisis situation (i.e., grief, death, marriage and family issues, national disasters); and/or I have administered faith-appropriate sacraments, rites, and ceremonies that identify with their faith tradition. I have taught a class on religious topics; and/or I have visited the sick in the hospital or home to provide pastoral or ministerial support; and/or I have led worship/religious services in a congregational setting. I have assisted with teaching a class on religious topics; and/or I have assisted with providing pastoral or spiritual support during a visitation to the sick in a hospital or home; and/or I have assisted in leading worship/religious services in a congregant setting. None of the above. 4 The Chaplain communicates in writing with staff, inmates and the community via memorandums, letters, emails, and responses to inmate needs. Solid writing skills are essential for clear and effective communication in all written correspondence. Written communication is essential in promoting the security and orderly running of religious programs in conjunction with all operations in the institution. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared religious service program and/or written synoptic of religious program(s) for congregation and/or bulletin; and/or I have written letter of interest for job application; and/or I have e-mailed group pertinent information related to a specific task. I have proofread and edited written publications for religious programming; and/or I have prepared a budget fund to meet the religious accommodation needs; and/or I have prepared memorandums outlining operating procedures for co-workers and/or new staff. I have developed and written schedules for ministerial and/or congregational activities; and/or I have written responses to general information requests from the public and/or congregation members; and/or I have assisted other pastoral employees in writing memos and reports. None of the above. 5 The Chaplain communicates orally with inmates and staff by providing religious guidance and expertise regarding all religious issues. Communication with inmates, contract resource persons, volunteers, family members and outside religious organizations is essential to the mission of chaplaincy. He/she communicates during staff/departmental meetings, religious services, counseling sessions, daily interactions with inmates/staff and persons in the community.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have delivered a sermon and worship service as part of a class or internship; and/or I have conveyed information for meeting agendas, worship bulletins and training sessions to supervisor; and/or I have presented a religious training class or study as part of an internship. I have taught Sunday School class and/or led religious study; and/or I have communicated to congregation/constituents during or about programmatic events/activities; and/or I have recited announcements and/or provided instructions during group session and/or religious events. I have presented sermons and led worship services to own congregation; and/or I have led ministerial staff and/or committee meetings with own ministry groups; and/or I have presented at a religious workshop, retreat, or group class; and/or I have offered conflict mediation to individuals and groups. None of the above. 6 The Chaplain relates to inmates, staff, resource persons, volunteers, and religious organizations in the community on a daily basis. Solid interpersonal skills are essential in relating appropriately and positively. His/her interpersonal skills must be able to deal effectively with religiously varied faith groups, inmate personal issues, crisis situations, religious needs, community resources, and institutional staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked with volunteer groups and faith organizations in past ministry efforts; and/or I have utilized faith groups and faith organizations to meet specific, pressing, and relevant religious needs; and/or I have communicated and trained volunteer groups and faith organizations to be more effective in meeting religious needs. I have accessed and used information from various sources (i.e., web sites, community) regarding volunteer groups and faith organizations; and/or I have communicated the mission of Chaplaincy Services to various community organizations; and/or I have initiated positive relationship building with volunteer groups and faith organizations by personal interaction and communication. I have proofread an agenda and offered feedback to ensure a balanced representation; and/or I have managed invitations, coordinated meeting times, and provided logistical support; and/or I have participated in religious town hall meeting and/or business meeting; and/or I have assisted with community programs such as food bank, clothing drive, or homeless program. None of the above. 7 The Chaplain oversees programs, policy and procedures or may assist in planning, directing, coordinating, and evaluating policy in an independent manner. He/she is responsible for a variety of technical and complex assignments and must be able to prioritize workload to ensure assignments are completed in a timely manner and re-prioritize assignments as needed to meet the mission of the office. He/she may identify operational or program issues and initiate corrective action or recommend solutions with limited review and/or revision. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized checklist to complete assignments; and/or I have researched available resources to respond to inquiry received; and/or I have overseen workload and exceeded required deadlines. I have prioritized work based on last minute assignments or staff shortages; and/or I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have recommended ideas for consideration to streamline a current process. I have reviewed bulletin for worship service; and/or I have planned religious study; and/or I have planned and evaluated volunteer schedule. None of the above. Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. To be considered for the position, you must meet the following basic qualification requirements: Education: Bachelor&rsquo;s Degree: An applicant must have a conferred 4-year course of study in any field leading to a bachelor's degree, in an accredited college or university. AND Ecclesiastical Endorsement: An Ecclesiastical Endorsement attests to the applicant's suitability for correctional ministry, support for his or her candidacy, a clear assurance statement that the applicant has no present or past legal or moral barrier to congregational ministry, and an affirmation that the applicant will facilitate inmates of all faiths opportunities to pursue individual religious beliefs and practices. The applicant's relationship to the endorsing body must reflect a minimum two-year association before endorsement. AND Religious Credentials: Applicants will be ordained clergy or members of ecclesiastically recognized religious institutes of vowed men or women. In lieu of professional ordination credentials, adequate documentation of the applicant&rsquo;s recognized religious and ministerial roles in their respective faith communities is required. 1 Do you meet the basic requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the basic requirements described above. No, I do not meet the basic requirements described above. In addition to the above Basic Requirements, applicants must meet the following qualification requirements: Education: A: Master&rsquo;s degree: Candidates must have a Master of Divinity or equivalent theological education. Equivalent theological education represented by a conferred degree comprised of no less than 72 semester hours of graduate coursework including: 20 semester hours in pastoral ministry; and 20 semester hours in any combination of theology, ethics, and philosophy of religion; and 20 semester hours in the study of sacred writings, including the study of languages in which sacred writings are/were written; and 12 semester hours in religious history and/or world religions. AND Professional Ministry Experience (Specialized Experience): Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. 4,160 hours (2 years) full-time specialized experience at the next lower grade. Note: Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. OR: B: Professional Ministry Experience In lieu of Graduate Theological Degree: Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. Applicants who meet the Basic Requirements, but do not meet the graduate education requirement, may be found qualified with Professional Ministry Experience. 10,400 hours (5 years) full-time specialized experience at the next lower grade. Note: Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. OR: C: Combination of Education and Experience: Experience in formal religious leadership compatible with the duties of a religious ministry provider in the applicant&rsquo;s organization and relevant to professional chaplaincy. Earned Clinical Pastoral Education (CPE) units can be credited towards professional ministry experience. All professional ministry experience must be gained while in a relationship with the endorsing religious organization. Combination of successfully completed graduate level education and/or professional ministry experience. 10,400 hours (5 years) of a combination of qualifying theological education, CPE units, and/or professional ministry experience. Note: A two-year conferred graduate theological or religious degree will qualify as 4,160 hours (2 years) of professional ministry experience. Each CPE unit earned will count as 520 hours of professional ministry experience. 2 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit all educational transcripts and documents supporting being an Ordained Clergy and having an ecclesiastical endorsement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Chaplain is a pastoral care provider to inmates and staff. His/her presence should be seen in all areas of the institution to include housing units, special housing units, and staff work duty stations to ensure availability and pastoral presence. Pastoral care is to be extended to all inmates regardless of their faith tradition. Pastoral care to staff should be extended when appropriate. His/her work schedules are posted on chapel and inmate housing bulletin boards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have taught a class on religious topics; and/or I have visited the sick in the hospital or home to provide pastoral or ministerial support; and/or I have led worship/religious services in a congregational setting. I have designed, organized and/or led religious services in a congregational setting; and/or I have counseled congregants in a crisis situation (i.e., grief, death, marriage and family issues, and national disasters); and/or I have, as a pastoral leader, provided administrative oversight of a religious organization. I have designed and organized religious services in a congregational setting; and/or I have counseled congregants during a crisis situation (i.e., grief, death, marriage and family issues, national disasters); and/or I have administered faith-appropriate sacraments, rites, and ceremonies who identify with their faith tradition. None of the above. 4 The Chaplain communicates in writing with staff, inmates and the community via memorandums, letters, emails, and responses to inmate needs. Solid writing skills are essential for clear and effective communication in all written correspondence. Written communication is essential in promoting the security and orderly running of religious programs in conjunction with all operations in the institution. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently prepared ministerial reports utilizing Microsoft programs; and/or I have independently created ministry media presentations; and/or I have developed written publications of religious programming, such as worship bulletins, devotions, flyers, pamphlets, and web sites. I have proofread and edited written publications for religious programming; and/or I have prepared a budget fund to meet the religious accommodation needs; and/or I have prepared memorandums outlining operating procedures for co-workers and/or new staff. I have developed and written schedules for ministerial and/or congregational activities; and/or I have written responses to general information requests from the public and/or congregation members; and/or I have assisted other pastoral employees in writing memos and reports. None of the above. 5 The Chaplain communicates orally with inmates and staff by providing religious guidance and expertise regarding all religious issues. Communication with inmates, contract resource persons, volunteers, family members and outside religious organizations is essential to the mission of chaplaincy. He/she communicates during staff/departmental meetings, religious services, counseling sessions, daily interactions with inmates/staff and persons in the community. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented sermons and led worship services to own congregation; and/or I have led ministerial staff and/or committee meetings with own ministry groups; and/or I have presented at a religious workshop, retreat, or group class; and/or I have offered conflict mediation to individuals and groups. I have officiated weekly sermons, holy day observances, special ceremonial rites, and worship services; and/or I have led ministerial staff meetings and/or committee meetings in a multi staff religious setting; and/or I have facilitated religious workshops, retreats and classes with groups; and/or I have counseled others in crisis through one-on-one and group pastoral care sessions. I have delivered a sermon and worship service as part of a class or internship; and/or I have conveyed information for meeting agendas, worship bulletins and training sessions to supervisor; and/or I have presented a religious training class or study as part of an internship. None of the above. 6 The Chaplain relates to inmates, staff, resource persons, volunteers, and religious organizations in the community on a daily basis. Solid interpersonal skills are essential in relating appropriately and positively. His/her interpersonal skills must be able to deal effectively with religiously varied faith groups, inmate personal issues, crisis situations, religious needs, community resources, and institutional staff. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established a work history of effective ministry accomplishments in meeting religious needs by utilizing volunteer groups and faith organizations; and/or I have developed specialized training programs for volunteer groups and faith communities to accomplish strategic objectives; and/or I have served as a subject matter expert in training and educating volunteer groups and faith organizations in need of training expertise. I have worked with volunteer groups and faith organizations in past ministry efforts; and/or I have utilized faith groups and faith organizations to meet specific, pressing, and relevant religious needs; and/or I have communicated and trained volunteer groups and faith organizations to be more effective in meeting religious needs. I have accessed and used information from various sources (i.e., web sites, community) regarding volunteer groups and faith organizations; and/or I have communicated the mission of Chaplaincy Services to various community organizations; and/or I have initiated positive relationship building with volunteer groups and faith organizations by personal interaction and communication. None of the above. 7 The Chaplain oversees programs, policy and procedures or may assist in planning, directing, coordinating, and evaluating policy in an independent manner. He/she is responsible for a variety of technical and complex assignments and must be able to prioritize workload to ensure assignments are completed in a timely manner and re-prioritize assignments as needed to meet the mission of the office. He/she may identify operational or program issues and initiate corrective action or recommend solutions with limited review and/or revision. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have utilized checklist to complete assignments; and/or I have researched available resources to respond to inquiry received; and/or I have overseen workload and exceeded required deadlines. I have prioritized work based on last minute assignments or staff shortages; and/or I have assisted others in completing assignments; and/or I have recommended ideas for consideration to streamline a current process. I have evaluated religious materials and procured authorized items; and/or I have implemented established guidance or instructions to improve work process; and/or I have re-arranged priorities due to the assignment of a special project; and/or I have managed workload and completed projects in accordance with supervisory expectations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 Previous law enforcement experience or Veterans Preference: Answer to this question is required I have previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position covered by special retirement provisions and will provide an SF-50 as proof of such service at the time I apply, OR I am a qualified preference eligible. I have NOT previously held a Federal civilian law enforcement position; AND I am NOT a preference eligible. 7 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Answer to this question is required Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Human Resources Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Social Media (Linkedln, Twitter, etc.) Other 7.1 Please briefly describe how you heard about this employment opportunity with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Maximum length of 75 characters. 8 Which of the following factors listed below influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Please select 1-5 answers. Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP 9 Which of the following factors listed below was the single most important factor that influenced your decision to apply for work with the Federal Bureau of Prisons? Answer to this question is required Pay Retirement benefits Health care benefits Vacation/holiday leave Job security Interest in public service Limited/lack of private sector jobs Organization/agency mission Reputation of the BOP Positive work environment Opportunity to advance Opportunities for training/development Variety of assignments Opportunity to make a difference with my work Challenging and interesting work Geographical location Relocation opportunities Work hours/schedule Opportunity to balance work-life issues Ability to address a new family situation (e.g., child, marital change, health change) Friend or family member working for the BOP Not addressed above 10 In order to determine if a Selective Factor is required, please select the applicable option below that applies to you? Answer to this question is required I am applying under the Buddhist faith. I am applying under the Catholic faith. I am applying under the Islamic faith. I am applying under the Jewish faith. None of the above. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).