Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following qualitative / quantitative analysis functions have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Gathered statistical data Worked with spreadsheets Performed qualitative analyses Performed quantitative analyses Designed / developed qualitative and/or quantitative analysis plans Designed / developed graphs and charts Produced supply chain queries and reports None of the above 2 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory / statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers / decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 3 Which of the following duties have you performed in support of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA) program? Answer to this question is required Redact privileged information and cite appropriate exemptions for those redactions. Log and track request under FOIA and Privacy Act using an electronic database. Organize/maintain large volumes of documents and data in accordance with the records management policies and procedures. Create reports and organize statistical data. Analyze office practices and standard operating procedures in order to initiate changes to reflect best practices. Ensure proper format, grammar and spelling when drafting FOIA or PA final action letters. Provided guidance on statutes, regulation and litigation applicable to FOIA and PA. Handle classified materials in accordance with policy and regulations. None of the above. 4 What type of editing have you performed? Answer to this question is required Copy editing Editing for content Editing for grammar and spelling Editing for factual accuracy Editing for length Editing for style None of the above 5 Please select the tasks you have performed as a regular and recurring part of your job assignment. Answer to this question is required Searched files, documents or other sources for informational materials. Conducted personal inquiries to obtain information from a number of different offices and personnel. Collected, prepared, and formatted data obtained from research. Prepared non-technical responses to inquiries from the general public regarding work operations based on research. Prepared Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) responses or letters in response to Congressional inquiries. None of the above. 6 From the following list, indicate the tasks that you have performed on a regular and recurring basis: Answer to this question is required I have drafted policies, guidance and/or operating procedures pertaining to records or information resource management issues. I have conducted studies and recommended internal controls or procedures to resolve issues with records management systems. I have coordinated and assembled records from both automated and non-automated records management systems for projects and/or to respond to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and other requests. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to staff on records management issues. I have provided advice, guidance and assistance to management officials on records management issues. I research and analyze policy concepts and issues, best practices and recommend appropriate solutions to records or information resource management issues. As the office liaison, I consult with other organizations on records management issues and provide guidance. I conduct and/or assist with conducting quality reviews of data entered and retrieved from the system to ensure the adequacy and accuracy of the information and to identify potential problems. None of the above. 7 Which of the following regulations/access laws have you utilized in determining whether information should be disclosed or withheld? Answer to this question is required Freedom of Information Act (5 USC 552) Privacy Act (5 USC 552a) Sunshine Act (5 USC 552b) E.O. 13526 (Classified National Security Information) None of the above. 8 Select the choices that describe your experience conducting legal, policy or investigative research and analysis: Answer to this question is required Occasionally (i.e., monthly or less) prepared reports identifying legal or policy issues for consideration by supervisor. Frequently (i.e., weekly or more) prepared reports identifying legal, policy or investigative issues for supervisor and/or higher-level (above immediate supervisor) consideration. Identified any regulatory, policy, and legal issues through research and analysis and independently resolved these issues. Researched and analyzed legal, policy or investigative issues and produced reports or published results. None of the above. 9 From the choices below, identify the types of audiences with which you have experience making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Colleagues Subordinates Senior level officials Supervisor Team leaders Program officers Attendees at conferences, workshops, and/or meetings Members of the public Government officials None of the above 10 With which of the following laws, policies, directives and/or guidelines related to information management do you have experience? Answer to this question is required Federal Records Act Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Electronic Freedom of Information Act (EFOIA) Amendments to the FOIA Privacy Act Executive Order (EO) 12958 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) reporting requirements National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) information quality guidelines and standards None of the above 11 I have experience designing and/or conducting analytical evaluations of: Answer to this question is required Program systems using System Analysis Techniques Contract Administration / Management systems Terms & Conditions Service Level Agreements (SLA) Office Level Agreements (OLA) Work processes Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) Standard Operating Environment (SOE) Common Operating Enviornment (COE) Resources utilization Records management Contract Management Inventory Assessments IT Asset Management None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.