Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized&nbsp;experience for this position must demonstrate the following: (1) Comprehensive knowledge of and experience with estimate development, through design stages from schematics through working drawings, for proposed new construction, restorations, repairs and alteration projects; (2) Providing oversight and leading in the development of cost estimates for construction projects and ensuring accuracy and compliance with applicable standards; (3) Developing cost estimates using SUCCESS Estimator/RIB, Cost-OS, or equivalent cost estimating software; (4) Providing advisory services and working with engineers, architects, and contractors to ensure cost estimates are in compliance with project budget and cost projections; and (5) Serving as Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) or equivalent for support contracts. 2 For what&nbsp;purposes have you performed analyses? Answer to this question is required To coordinate and/or develop program recommendations. To ensure efficient use of resources. To perform cost benefit analysis. To recommend modifications of program goals. To measure program performance. To prepare cost and methods reports. To review project estimates vs. project award amounts and /or final project amount. None of the above. 3 Please identify the unit price resources you have used to develop cost estimates, and the purpose/reason for each. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Select&nbsp;the statement that best describes your ability to develop cost estimates for new construction, restorations, repairs and alteration projects. Answer to this question is required I am able to plan and estimate the simplest projects. I would need assistance with more complex projects. I am able to independently plan and estimate most construction projects and all repair and improvement projects. I am able to determine which projects can be accomplished by account personnel and which can be done by contractors. I am able to independently plan and estimate all construction, restoration, repairs and alteration projects. I am able to accurately establish a practical timetable as well as compute the costs of the manpower and materials required. I am able to independently plan and estimate all construction, restoration, repairs and alteration projects. I am able to accurately establish a practical timetable as well as compute the costs of the manpower and materials required, and I have trained others in the performance of this task. I have little or no experience in planning and estimating construction, restoration, repairs and/or alteration work, however, I am willing to be trained. 5 What is your highest level of experience resolving errors or inconsistencies in estimates or budgetary information? Answer to this question is required I have trained or helped others resolve errors and inconsistencies. I have independently resolved errors and inconsistencies without management review. I have resolved errors and inconsistencies with management assistance/review. I have completed education and/or training on resolving errors and inconsistencies but have not applied it on the job. I do not have experience resolving errors or inconsistencies. 6 For what types of activities have you prepared cost estimates? Answer to this question is required New construction, alterations, and/or renovations projects Multi-discipline infrastructure projects Repair/replacement of equipment Contracting for third party services (i.e. equipment commissioning, risk assessment, construction administration) Proposals for professional fees None of the above 7 Select the estimate types, programming and design stage documents, pertaining to building construction projects, from which you have prepared estimates. Answer to this question is required Design Narrative (no drawings) Rough order of magnitude (ROM) Program of Requirements Study Schematic Design Design Development General Contractor (GC) Cost Proposals Conceptual Completed Construction Documents Construction Change Orders None of the above 8 Do you have experience communicating new methods or updates to job-related standards to others to inform them of the most recent practices and approaches? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 I have recommended design modifications as necessary to resolve cost-related issues. Answer to this question is required True False 10 Which response best describes your highest level of experience with factors that influenced the cost, schedule, or performance of a project? Answer to this question is required I proactively identified issues that could impact the cost, schedule, or performance of a project and independently took steps to mitigate the issues. I identified issues that impacted the project’s cost, schedule, or performance as they arose and notified a more experienced project manager for resolution. After an issue was identified by others, I made recommendations to a more experienced project manager on ways to mitigate the issue. I implemented actions to mitigate issues once the issue and solution were identified by others. None of the above. 11 Which tasks did you perform to determine the necessity, fairness, and reasonableness of proposed contract costs? Answer to this question is required Devised multiple incentives that required the use of sophisticated contracting techniques. Prepared economic price adjustment clauses that identified the basis for adjusting labor or material costs where pricing could not be reasonably predicted at the time of contract negotiation. Gathered and evaluated price and/or cost data for pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions. Performed basic analyses for firm fixed-price contracts. None of the above. 12 Choose the statement that best describes your experience applying analytical methods and techniques to identify and resolve financial issues related to programs. Answer to this question is required I have analyzed program components, including those of a controversial nature and independently developed or recommended the most suitable program or system for modification. I have directed an organizational unit that analyzed program components, including those of a controversial nature, and directed the development or recommendation of the most suitable program or system plan for modification. I have established methodologies and directed the analysis of significant and controversial financial data from a complex array of multi-source funds in order to formulate budget/financial information for an agency's multi-year substantive programs. None of the above. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your experience supporting contract administration (i.e., assisting in the development of statements of work (SOW); developing cost comparisons; reviewing proposals received from consultants and contractors, monitoring contract costs, scheduling, and related resource activities)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 14 Which oral communication tasks have you performed as part of your daily duties? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, or direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. None of the above. 15 With which construction project stakeholders have you interacted? Answer to this question is required Trades / Crafts workers Architects Engineers Project Managers Construction Managers Contractors Government Executives Elected Officials None of the above 16 Choose the statements that describe written communication skills you used to convey information on cost-related issues. Answer to this question is required I have developed written materials on cost-related issues for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have written clear, logical, concise, and persuasive materials on cost-related or business related issues for various audiences. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence on cost-related or business related issues for signature by higher-level officials. I have edited cost-related reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience. I have responded to budget and cost-related congressional inquiries. None of the above. 17 What is the process you follow in developing a proposal/cost estimate for trade related scope, and for what trades have you developed detailed cost proposals for? Maximum length of 5500 characters. Answer to this question is required 18 &nbsp; In your experience, how did different Means and Methods impact how you developed an estimate? Maximum length of 5500 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 What experience do you have gathering data and developing &nbsp; a custom cost book? &nbsp; Please describe the purpose of the cost book and whether it was used by others or for personal use. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 20 Describe a time you had to resolve a conflict with a client or co-worker, how did you resolve the situation? Maximum length of 5500 characters. Answer to this question is required 21 Describe your experience in estimating owner soft costs. Maximum length of 5500 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 Describe your experience applying productivity adjustments in an estimate. Maximum length of 5500 characters. Answer to this question is required 23 Describe your experience applying labor cost premiums/shift differentials for night or weekend work to estimates. Maximum length of 5500 characters. Answer to this question is required 24 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 24.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.