Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to conduct reference interviews.** The ability to conduct reference interviews, including: ascertaining sufficient facts and details to clarify indefinite or obscurely stated requests; evaluating the various facts bearing on the request; analyzing, interpreting, and synthesizing the details and determining the most accurate and effective means for formulating the request. This includes interpreting needs, discussing deadlines, and handling complaints. Answer to this question is required AS A PRIMARY JOB RESPONSIBILITY, conducted research, reference, or informational interviews in a library, academic, research-oriented, customer service or public relations setting in a fast-paced environment. This included using interview techniques to gather information on a wide range of highly complex topics; ascertaining sufficient facts and details to clarify indefinite or obscurely stated requests; evaluating the various facts bearing on the request; analyzing, interpreting, and synthesizing the details; and determining the most effective means for responding to the request. This also included handling difficult or sensitive requests or complaints and recommending improvements to existing practices and procedures based on feedback. CONDUCTED research, reference, or informational interviews in a library, academic, research-oriented, customer service or public relations setting in a fast-paced environment. This included using interview techniques to gather information on a wide range of highly complex topics; ascertaining sufficient facts and details to clarify indefinite or obscurely stated requests; evaluating the various facts bearing on the request; analyzing, interpreting, and synthesizing the details; and determining the most effective means for responding to the request. This also included ensuring timely follow up and resolution to client complaints. PERIODICALLY CONDUCTED research, reference, or informational interviews in a library, academic, research-oriented, customer service or public relations setting in a fast-paced environment. This included using interview techniques to gather information on a wide range of highly complex topics; ascertaining sufficient facts and details to clarify indefinite or obscurely stated requests; evaluating the various facts bearing on the request; analyzing, interpreting, and synthesizing the details; and determining the most effective means for responding to the request. None of the above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of the organization and processes of the U.S. Congress.** Applied knowledge of the rules, procedures, organization and operations of the United States Congress. This includes an understanding of congressional offices or committees and their staffing structure. Answer to this question is required Have experience working in a congressional office or legislative support agency (e.g., CBO, GAO, CRS) that required applying knowledge of the rules, procedures, organization and operations of the Congress and an understanding of congressional offices or committees and their staffing structure. Have experience working in a governmental relations office, an organization such as a trade association, lobbying group, non-profit organization, in an academic setting, or equivalent experience that required applying knowledge of the rules, procedures, organization and operations of the Congress and an understanding of congressional offices or committees and their staffing structure. Gained familiarity with the rules, procedures, organization and operations of the Congress and an understanding of congressional offices or committees and their staffing structure. For example, took several upper level classes on topics related to public policy or political science. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to apply knowledge of public policy issues.** Applied knowledge of current public policy issues (e.g., issues in the areas of education, health and medicine, labor policy, environment and natural resources, science and technology policy, tax policy, public finance, foreign affairs and trade, or national defense). Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of current public policy issues in a legislative, research, or academic environment. For example, served as a legislative aide in a congressional office, completed an advanced public policy or equivalent degree, or equivalent experience. Demonstrated general knowledge of current public policy issues by, for example, completing an internship in a public policy organization or institution, completing an undergraduate public policy or equivalent degree, or equivalent experience. Demonstrated general knowledge of current public policy issues by, for example, taking several upper level classes on public policy-related topics. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to perform client services and outreach activities.** Performed client services and outreach duties with individuals inside and outside the organization. This included: 1) applying and articulating organization policies and guidelines; 2) articulating the full range of services and resources of the organization to clients; and 3) ensuring delivery of the product or service that best meets client needs. Answer to this question is required Routinely performed client services and outreach activities in a public relations, non-profit, trade, or public policy organization or corporation. This included articulating the full range of products, services, and resources; educating clients about the products, services, or resources that best meet their needs; and resolving issues with service delivery. Performed client services and outreach activities in a or public relations, non-profit, trade, public policy organization or corporation. This included providing an overview of products, services, and resources and connecting clients to relevant products, services, and resources. Occasionally performed client services and outreach activities in a public relations, non-profit, trade, or public policy organization or corporation, or in an academic setting. This included citing examples of products, services, or resources and referring clients to supervisor when appropriate. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to communicate in writing. Wrote a variety of documents, including: 1) reports (e.g., project reports, monthly reports, term papers, published journal articles), 2) compilations and syntheses of information and data (e.g., executive summaries, reference interview summaries), 3) memoranda, 4) articles for electronic publication (e.g., newsletter, editorial, blog), 5) professional marketing email messages, and 6) speeches or presentations. Answer to this question is required Wrote at least FOUR of the above documents, including (1) and (2) above. Wrote at least THREE of the above documents, including (1) and (2) above. Wrote at least THREE of the above documents. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to utilize information technology and online systems. Utilized technologies and applications including: 1) Online aggregators (e.g., Nexis/Lexis, ProQuest, FACTIVA), 2) Authoritative internet resources (e.g., government and university websites), 3) Client Relationship Management software (e.g., MS Dynamics), 4) Scheduling software (e.g., Outlook), 5) Spreadsheet and database management software (e.g., Excel), and 6) collaborative software (e.g., SharePoint and wikis). Answer to this question is required Used five (5) of the above technologies and applications in an academic or professional environment. Used four (4) of the above technologies and applications in an academic or professional environment. Used three (3) of the above technologies and applications in an academic or professional environment. None of the above. 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).