Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. 3 Knowledge of American history, culture and literature.** Applied knowledge of American history, culture and literature and in doing so, performed the following activities: 1) provided specialized reference service in American history and book production; 2) prepared bibliographies and other means of access to collections; 3) performed comprehensive research and analysis of topics related to American history and book production; 4) served as consultant to scholars and others planning special observances in the field; 5) participated in professional associations and scholarly enterprises in the field; and 6) prepared exhibits on related subjects. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of American history (Colonial America and/or Revolutionary War and/or Civil War) and performed ALL of the activities listed above in a major research library or institution. Applied knowledge of American history (Colonial America and/or Revolutionary War and/or Civil War) and performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the activities listed above in a research library or institution. Applied knowledge of American history (Colonial America and/or Revolutionary War and/or Civil War) and performed at least TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the activities listed above in a library. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to communicate in writing.** Produced clear, accurate, understandable written products related to the work area of the position such as: 1) reports, 2) external correspondence with donors, scholars, researchers, vendors, federal agencies, and other acquisition and collections development specialists, 3) presentation materials, 4) scholarly articles and exhibition text, and 5) funding proposals, and 6) blogs. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above types of documents in the area of the History of the Book, Book Production, and Book Publishing As a principal author, independently wrote FOUR (4) of the above types of documents in the area of the History of the Book, Book Production, and Book Publishing As a principal author, independently wrote THREE (3) of the above types of documents in the area of the History of the Book, Book Production, and Book Publishing None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration.&nbsp; Please ensure that your application materials and narrative responses in this questionnaire are free of spelling and punctuation errors; use proper grammar and word usage, appropriate formatting and relevant, clear, concise, informative, and understandable content. If the ability to write is a critical competency for the position, the application materials, including your narrative responses, may be used to assess your ability to write. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to provide outreach, consultation and liaison services.** Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals such as: 1) co-workers, 2) management officials, 3) acquisitions, preservation, and reference librarians, and 4) professional colleagues such as contractors, academics, donors, co-workers, and those representing foundations, associations, government and industry. This included providing outreach, consultation, and liaison services with individuals inside and outside of an organization. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization, including ALL of those listed above. Provided outreach, consultation, and liaison services to exchange information in the field of Librarianship. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization, including 1), 2), and 3) listed above. Provided outreach, consultation and liaison services to exchange information in the field of Collection Development or Special Collections and Research. Developed and maintained professional relationships with individuals inside and outside an organization, including 1) and 2) listed above. Provided outreach and consultation services to exchange information. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Knowledge of collection development principles and techniques. Applied knowledge of collection development principles and techniques to oversee and implement the development of a rare book collection in an institution, agency or organization such as a museum or library. This included: 1) examining catalogs and special offers for additions to collections; 2) contacting and negotiating with donors and others for potential collection materials; and 3) selecting materials for the collections, for example, from incoming receipts by purchase, gift, exchange, transfer, etc. Answer to this question is required Oversaw the growth of collections in the area of specialization and performed the full range of collection development activities that included ALL of the above listed in a major library or research institution. Performed the full range of collection development activities that included TWO (2) of the above listed in either a library or research institution. Performed a varied range of collection development activities that included at least ONE (1) of the above listed in a library or research institution. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of curatorial, conservation and preservation principles for rare and valuable library materials. Applied knowledge of curatorial, conservation and preservation principles and in doing so, performed the following: 1) evaluated and appraised collections of materials; 2) determined condition and use of materials for exhibit purposes; 3) participated with others regarding care and treatment of materials; and 4) assureds appropriate safeguards are used to protect and preserve collections. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of curatorial, conservation and preservation principles and in doing so, performed ALL of the above in a major library or research institution. Applied knowledge of curatorial, conservation and preservation principles and in doing so, performed THREE (3) of the above in a library or research institution. Applied knowledge of curatorial, conservation and preservation principles and in doing so, performed TWO (2) of the above in a library or research institution. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).