Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to use one or more of the following languages: French, Italian or Dutch and English in an academic or professional setting.** Applied and demonstrated use of French, Italian or Dutch and English in an academic or professional setting. Answer to this question is required Used at least one or more of the following languages: French, Italian or Dutch, and English in a professional setting. Used at least one language, French, Italian or Dutch, and English in an academic setting. Used English and have sufficient knowledge of at least one language: French, Italian or Dutch. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to support library operations within a section or unit.** Applied and demonstrated ability to perform the majority of the following support operations, such as: 1) labeling and/or targeting; 2) copy cataloging; 3) creating and/or updating IBCRs; 4) performing general clerical tasks; 5) accessioning serials materials (i.e., serials check-in); 6) opening boxes; 7) inventorying incoming shipments; 8) sorting materials; and 9) adding line-item, among others. Answer to this question is required Knowledge AND library experience in AT LEAST FIVE of the support operations listed above. Knowledge AND experience in FOUR of the support operations listed above.es. Knowledge AND experience in THREE of the support operations listed above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to use an integrated library system (ILS), as well as computerized search tools, databases, and other computer applications.** Used an integrated library system (ILS), and other computer applications to carry out technical services and provide support including: 1) computer applications such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader, screen-capture tools, and video teleconferencing tools; 2) databases (e.g., e-Resources; OCLC; WorldCat; Online Public Access Catalogs, foreign and domestic; and other research databases, to mention a few); 3) scanning/digitization equipment; and 4) other general office equipment. This also includes the ability and willingness to learn and acquire knowledge of new and emerging technologies to optimize productivity and support. Answer to this question is required Knowledge and ability to use technology in ALL of the following to carry out technical services and provide support: 1) computer applications such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader, screen-capture tools, and video teleconferencing tools; 2) databases (e.g., e-Resources; OCLC; WorldCat; Online Public Access Catalogs, foreign and domestic; and other research databases, to mention a few); 3) scanning/digitization equipment; and 4) other general office equipment. This also includes the ability and willingness to learn and acquire knowledge of new and emerging technologies to optimize productivity and support. Knowledge and ability to use technology in the following THREE to carry out technical services and provide support: 1) computer applications such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader, screen-capture tools, and video teleconferencing tools; 3) scanners/ digitization equipment; and 4) other general office equipment to carry out technical services and provide. Knowledge and ability to use technology in the following TWO to carry out technical services and provide support: 1) computer applications such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader, screen-capture tools, and video teleconferencing tools; and 3) other general office equipment to carry out technical services and provide support. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan, organize and complete projects. Planned, organized, and completed projects in a professional and/or academic setting. Managed time to work both productively and efficiently to maximize productivity while maintaining quality standards. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized, and completed assignments and/or projects in a professional setting. With minimal supervision or assistance, planned, organized, and completed assignments and/or projects in a professional OR academic setting. Under close supervision or with substantial assistance, planned, organized, and completed assignments and/or projects in a professional OR academic setting. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Provided assistance, developed and maintained effective work relationships, interacted collaboratively on projects, and exchanged information with persons inside and outside an organization or work unit, including a variety of stakeholders (e.g., supervisors, colleagues, and/or trainees, among others) to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. Answer to this question is required Independently collaborated with persons inside and/or outside an organization to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. With assistance, collaborated with persons inside and/or outside an organization to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. Under close supervision, collaborated with persons inside and/or outside an organization to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).