Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to plan and manage a career development program.** Provided planning, management and leadership for one or more formal career development programs. A career development program helps program participants to improve their technical and/or professional skills and includes career planning and readiness activities. Led or served as technical advisor in planning, coordinating and implementation of one or more career development programs in an organization. In doing so, performed the following tasks: 1) gathered the program requirements and stakeholder expectations, 2) planned program activities, 3) coordinated project or program schedule, 4) provided leadership to program participants, 5) monitored a budget related to a program or a component of a program (e.g., printing budget), 6) facilitated discussions to work toward solutions, 7) evaluated program effectiveness, and 8) tracked lessons learned and identified improvements for future programs. Answer to this question is required Led or served as technical advisor in planning, coordinating and implementing one or more career development programs and, in doing so, defined their scope and oversaw the execution of ALL OF THE ABOVE tasks. Led ONE or MORE career development programs and, in doing so, ensured that ONE (1) through SIX (6) of the above tasks were completed. Led a SINGLE career development program and, in doing so, ensured that ONE (1) through FIVE (5) of the above tasks were completed. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to interact collaboratively with others while exercising judgment and discretion in order to provide consultation and liaison services.** The ability to serve as a liaison and/or representative for an office. Demonstrated the ability to work collaboratively with others (e.g., co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units) to provide clear and accurate information, and deliver solutions to persons and groups in order to accomplish the work of the office. Answer to this question is required Served as a liaison and/or representative for an office. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Participated in discussions and conferences concerning planning and administrative matters. Served as a liaison and/or representative for an office. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration primarily with individuals internal to the office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Served as a liaison and/or representative for an office. Developed and maintained professional contacts through collaboration with contacts internal to the work group or office to ensure administrative matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Individuals had similar views and goals. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to research, analyze and make recommendations to solve organizational and operational problems.** Researched and analyzed complex organizational and operational problems that arose in the context of planning, implementing, and evaluating a variety of new and ongoing programs; developed solutions and provided advice and guidance on strategies to address problems. Answer to this question is required Independently or while leading a team, identified, analyzed and resolved complex organizational and operational problems that arose in the context of planning, implementing, and evaluating a variety of new and ongoing programs; developed solutions and provided advice and guidance on strategies to address problems. While working as a key member of a team with minimal supervision, identified, analyzed and resolved complex organizational and operational problems that arose in the context of planning, implementing, and evaluating a variety of new and on-going programs; developed solutions and provided advice and guidance on strategies to address problems. Under supervision, direction and guidance or while working as a member of a team, identified, analyzed and resolved complex organizational and operational problems that arose in the context of planning, implementing, and evaluating a variety of new and on-going programs; developed solutions and provided advice and guidance on strategies to address problems. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing.** Produced written products related to procurements, contracts, budgets, and program and project management functions. These documents include: 1) formal and informal correspondence, 2) policies and/or standard operating procedures, 3) analysis/reports, 4) program and project management documentation, 5) surveys and evaluations, 6) budgets, and 7) contract-related (e.g., statement of work, vendor correspondence). Answer to this question is required Independently produced ALL of the above documents. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Prepared documents and analysis of complex information from multiple sources utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Independently produced SIX (6) of the above documents. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Prepared documents and analysis of complex information from multiple sources utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. Independently produced FIVE (5) of the above documents. Created tables and spreadsheets to display information/data in these reports and documents. Prepared documents and analysis of complex information from multiple sources utilizing standard grammar, writing style, and editing practices. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to plan, organize and learn continuously. Productively and efficiently planned and organized activities in order to maximize the quantity and quality of work delivered, including negotiating deadlines and managing competing priorities. In doing so, performed the following tasks: (1) used a process for planning and organizing own work in the office, (2) completed assigned tasks within schedule constraints, (3) set realistic work-related and personal development goals, (4) completed assignments on time and with minimal oversight from supervisors, and (5) self-identified and managed the process of developing a new skill or competency for use in the workplace within the last year. Answer to this question is required Independently experienced planning work and engaging in learning to enhance work performance. In doing so, completed ALL the items above. Independently experienced planning work and engaging in learning to enhance work performance. In doing so, completed ONE (1) through FOUR (4) of the items above. With some assistance from a supervisor or team leader, planned work and sought to learn in order to enhance work performance. In doing so, completed ONE (1) through FOUR (4) of the items above. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to utilize computer technology. Utilized technological tools and business system applications to respond to inquiries, prepare documents and presentations, conduct analyses, and maintain databases for an organization. These tools and applications include: 1) word-processing (e.g., Microsoft Word), 2) electronic calendar (e.g., Microsoft Outlook), 3) spreadsheets (e.g., Microsoft Excel), 4) presentation software (e.g., Microsoft PowerPoint), 5) collaboration software (e.g., Atlassian Confluence), 6) project management (e.g., Microsoft Project, Microsoft Planner), and 7) diagramming/graphics (e.g., Microsoft Visio). Answer to this question is required Have experience using ALL of the above. Have experience using 1) THROUGH 6) of the above. Have experience using 1) THROUGH 5) of the above. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).