Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 1 Do you have experience performing the work of a wood crafter without more than normal supervision, which includes working independently, showing job responsibility and exercising initiative? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: 10 1 Do you have experience performing the work of a wood crafter without more than normal supervision, which includes working independently, showing job responsibility and exercising initiative? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have experience performing wood crafter activities (e.g., fabricating, installing, repairing wood work) in a commercial setting? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Do you have experience coordinating work on a project with other trade workers (e.g., electricians, plumbers) to ensure tasks are completed in the proper sequence? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Select the individuals you have worked with collaboratively to complete a construction project. Answer to this question is required Electrician Plumber Painter Carpenter Mason None of the above 4 Which of the following do you have safety training in? Answer to this question is required OSHA 10 PPE Confined Space Asbestos Lead Respiratory None of the above 5 Which items have you read and interpreted in order to fabricate and/or install wood work? Answer to this question is required Written instructions from others (e.g., customer, supervisor) Blueprints Layout drawings and sketches Work orders Specification lists Safety information Manufacturer instructions None of the above 6 Have you interpreted and closely followed oral instructions to complete a project? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which materials do you have experience selecting for specific projects in order to achieve project goals? Answer to this question is required Wood/lumber Adhesives (e.g., contact adhesives, silicon) Fasteners (e.g., nails, screws) Plastics Cabinet joinery (e.g., finger joint, dowel, rabbet) Flooring Hardware (e.g., hinges, locks) Wall material (e.g., drywall, metal studs) None of the above 8 Select the types of tools you have operated independently to perform wood crafter activities. Answer to this question is required Measuring tools (e.g., tape measure) Basic hand tools (e.g., plane, variable speed drill, hand saw) Advanced hand tools (e.g., router, hammer drill, chop saw) Pneumatic tools (e.g., clamps, floor nailers, air sanders) Automated tools with Computer Numerical Control (CNC) (e.g., shaper, router, lathe) None of the above 9 Select the tools you have used to perform precise, intricate carpentry work. Answer to this question is required Shapers Planers Molders Routers Drill Presses Wide Belt Sanders Sliding table saw CNC Laser None of the Above 10 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a carpenter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to carpentry work but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform carpentry work. I have independently performed carpentry work. I have completed education or training related to carpentry and have applied to professional work and independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. 11 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing the activities of a wood crafter, including creating, altering, installing and repairing wooden items? Answer to this question is required I have completed education or training related to wood crafting but have not yet applied it to professional work. I have assisted senior workers on the job to perform wood crafting activities. I have independently performed wood crafting activities. I have completed education or training related to wood crafting and have applied to professional work and independently performed wood crafting activities. None of the above. 12 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 12.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.