Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 4 I have reviewed the following types of materials to identify omissions, errors, etc.: Answer to this question is required Job applications Order forms Claim forms Work orders Legal documents Forms for public records Local, state, and/or Federal forms None of the above 5 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 6 Select the types of tasks, tools, or techniques you have used in a compliance investigation setting: Answer to this question is required Conducted analysis and exercised judgment that involved matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Conducted analysis and exercised judgment beyond matching situations found to well established precedents or clear cut guidelines. Collected compliance information through observation, interview, and/or examination of records. Collected compliance information through the use of statistical sampling methods. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to situations found during the course of an investigation. Rendered judgments based on the interpretation and application of pertinent laws and regulations to complex situations that required follow up or further investigation. None of the above. 7 In which of the following do you have education, training, or experience? Answer to this question is required Conflict resolution Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mediation Negotiation Facilitation Arbitration Counseling Coaching None of the above 8 Which of the following customer groups have you interacted with on a regular or recurring basis as part of your work? Answer to this question is required The general public Congress Internal managers External managers Co-workers State or local agencies Vendors or contractors None of the above 9 I have provided leadership in my organization in the following ways: Answer to this question is required Identified and implemented ways to eliminate or reduce significant barriers to meeting business objectives, promoting team-building, or improvement of business practices. Provided input on activities as a non-supervisory senior staff advisor or member of a special project team. Facilitated or mediate a conflict resolution involving workplace disputes. Served as workplace mentor, advisor or trainer for new employees. Served on an agency task force or member of an agency planning team. I have performed none of the above. 10 I have utilized my interpersonal communication skills in the following area(s): Answer to this question is required Dealt successfully with individuals who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Dealt successfully with individuals who do not speak English as a first language. Negotiated with others to reach agreement, settlement, consensus, compliance or a solution. Identified and responded to critical events with diplomacy and action. Succeeded in working with co-workers, supervisors and high level management. None of the above. 11 Select the party or parties to whom you have provided advice on governing laws and regulations: Answer to this question is required Internal customer External customers Management Peers Subordinates None of the above 12 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Budget justifications Correspondence Technical reports Federal Register notices Regulatory/ statutory material Policy guidance Congressional testimony Speeches Analyses of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives Option papers/ decision memos Publications Books Academic papers None of the above 13 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources To implement programs To make recommendations to improve programs/ operations To decide on continuation or termination of programs To make recommendations to senior agency officials To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program To develop new policies or procedures for the agency To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials) None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.