Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: All Grades [73035]&nbsp; Please note that ALL candidates must submit a resume online and complete the entire application (Resume, Core Questions, Vacancy Questions) process. Ensure that your resume thoroughly supports your responses to the job specific questions and that it contains the names, titles, and phone numbers of your most current and previous supervisors so that we may contact them. Please also be sure that your preference regarding contacting your current supervisors is shown in the User Information area. Applicants are strongly encouraged to complete all questions.&nbsp; 1 How would you like to be considered for this position? Answer to this question is required As a U.S. citizen or national (Veteran's preference applies and you may not be referred for an interview if an eligible Veteran is also deemed qualified.) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths As a current or former federal employee or eligible veteran (you do not have to compete with general public or people with Veteran's preference. Instead, you compete with other competitive service employees) For more information: https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. Both (If you are unsure, select this option) 1.1 [35568] Select the response that is the GS equivalent grade level of the highest grade to which you have held on a permanent basis or have competed for promotion potential. Please ensure that you have also provided a supporting SF-50. Without the supporting SF-50, we may not be able to consider your application for this position. I have not held a government position. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 1.2 [587] Federal applicants must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade. Please include the date of your last promotion (in mm/dd/yy format). Maximum length of 20 characters. 1.3 [59279] In the past three years, have you had one or more of the following Awards: monetary, time-off, or other? Yes No 1.4 [59280] If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "Pass", "Fully Successful", "Satisfactory" or better? Yes No I am a Federal employee, but have not received a performance rating. Not applicable, I am not a Federal employee. 2 [31608] I understand the resume I have submitted for this position will be thoroughly reviewed to determine whether my experience and/or educational background is sufficient to meet basic and/or specialized experience requirements as outlined in this announcement. I also understand that if the information provided in my resume is not sufficient to support my responses to the vacancy announcement questions, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No [31648] When you are finished with the question phase of this announcement, you will be shown a list of documents that may include documents that do not apply to you. Review the list and the required documents section of the vacancy to determine which, IF ANY, are required for your application to be considered a complete application. Please do not submit documents that are not requested. If you are not a veteran, the DD-214 and the SF-15 do not apply to you. If you are not applying to an engineering position, the P.E. license or EIT exam does not apply to you. If you are not requesting consideration under a special appointing authority, the special appointing authority documents do not apply to you. If any of the requested documentation pertains to you, you have the option to fax using the fax coversheets provided, upload to this system or you may transfer the documentation from your USAJOBS account. Please note documents are NOT automatically transferred from USAJobs. Contact the office no later than the closing date, if you require assistance. 3 [62383] What is the highest degree you have earned from an accredited university? Answer to this question is required Associates Bachelors Master’s degree Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree Doctorate or PhD Law Degree (LL.M.) None of the above 4 [3057] By responding to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 [31609] I understand that if I do not submit all REQUIRED documents by the closing date, it will affect the overall assessment of my application package. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 [54657] Select your most recent work performance evaluation (includes pass in pass/fail systems). Answer to this question is required My most recent work performance evaluation was satisfactory or better. My most recent work performance evaluation was below satisfactory. I have never received a performance appraisal or review for any position. 7 [70279] Does the Department of Transportation employ any member of your family or relatives? For a definition of relative, please refer to the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board here: https://www.mspb.gov/ppp/7ppp.htm Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 8 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 9 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 10 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 11 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Response cannot exceed 200 words. 12 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 13 [64831] How did you hear about this job? Answer to this question is required USAJOBS website USAJOBS saved search email Social Media 13.1 [64832] Please indicate the social media site such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc. Maximum length of 250 characters. Agency website Current agency employee Recruitment event (job fair/recruitment event, event follow-up, Meetup, etc.) Job board or search agent other than USAJOBS Radio or TV advertisement Professional organization 13.1 [64833] Please indicate the professional organization or network. Maximum length of 250 characters. School or university announcement (e.g. career services, Handshake, etc) Friend, relative, professional colleague Other 13.1 [5063] Please indicate how you heard about this position. Maximum length of 250 characters. I prefer not to answer Grade: 13 1 [342] Choose the statement that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for this GS-13 position. Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well described in my application. I do not meet the one year specialized experience requirement as described in the vacancy announcement. 2 [62862] Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions. You must provide supporting documentation. Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor’s or higher engineering degree from an accredited university or college with at least one program accredited by ABET; or which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials (stress-strain relationships), fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), or any comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined is equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam or required written test for professional registration administered by Boards of Engineering Examiners in any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have a combination of work experience and education from an accredited university or college that combined are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering as demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including courses specified in response Choice 1. I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in engineering technology or another appropriate field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 [53933] Select the response that best describes your education and experience in accordance with requirements for land surveying positions. You must provide supporting documentation so that we can verify your answer. Answer to this question is required I have completed a four year degree in land surveying at an accredited university or college. I have completed a four year degree in civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis from an accredited university or college. The civil engineering major includes at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. I have a combination of education and experience that includes courses equivalent to a major in land surveying or civil engineering as described above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I have a current registration as a land surveyor in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia obtained by written examination. This registration has been obtained under conditions outlined in the National Council of Engineering Examiners (NCEE) Unified Model Law for Registration of Surveyors. I have evidence of registration based on successful completion of the written examinations. I am aware that registrations granted prior to adoption of a registration law with qualification requirements equivalent to the NCEE Model Law by the State, territory, or District of Columbia are not acceptable under this option. To be considered equivalent to the NCEE Model law, registration laws must include the four options listed within the NCEE Unified Model Law in the section specifying "General Requirements for Registration" as a Professional Land Surveyor. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 4 [74175] Do you meet the minimum qualifications, including specialized experience and/or education for this position as described in the vacancy announcement? This experience must be well documented in your resume and/or transcripts. Failure to do so may cause your application to be removed from consideration. Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 [74621] In 500 words or less, please describe a transportation or infrastructure project where you served as the technical lead for land survey or right-of-way. Depending on whether your role was primarily focused on land survey, or on right-of-way,&nbsp; answer at least one of the following: 1) Detail how you applied technical judgment to resolve a control network issue, processing&nbsp;discrepancies between survey methods (such as combining aerial LiDAR and total&nbsp;station data), and/or discrepancies between the preliminary design survey and&nbsp;construction. 2) Detail how you applied technical judgment to resolve conflicting property boundary&nbsp;evidence, cadastral records, and/or right-of-way (ROW) discrepancies. Maximum length of 501 characters. 4.2 [74622] In 500 words or less, please describe how you ensure survey data and mapping, and/or right-of-way&nbsp;products (such as digital terrain planimetric models, or property boundary mapping) are&nbsp;complete, accurate, and ready for use in downstream project development. Detail the specific&nbsp;quality control measures you implemented, how you delegated work, and how you held yourself&nbsp;and others accountable for the final outcome. Maximum length of 501 characters. 4.3 [74623] In 500 words or less, please detail your experience managing the operational business functions of a surveying team. Provide an example of how you estimated and managed the technical scope,&nbsp;schedule, and budget for land survey and/or right-of-way activities on a project located outside&nbsp;of your local commuting area. Maximum length of 501 characters. No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).