Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 11 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate`s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees I have motivated subordinates. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have participated as a full member of the management team and serve as the focal point for administrative management within organization served. I have defined, analyzed, and prepared data and information on the planning and execution of strategic plans. I have applied principles and applications of organizational assessments, management intervention and change management, management indicators, effectiveness and efficiency measures, and measurement system design techniques to organizational problems. I have applied re-engineering business principles, measured performance via organizational assessments, and managed change by identifying problems and developing solutions. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your level of experience managing and developing staff? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in this skill. I have supervised staff and overseen training and development plans. I have implemented policies and techniques to select, supervise, and developed staff. I have led teams or committees to develop and implement policies and techniques to select, supervise, and develop staff. 4 Which of the following best describes your knowledge in developing security theories, techniques, surveys, and inspections? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques. I have knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques. I have knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques, as well as experience resolving security problems and conducting physical security surveys. I have knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques, as well as experience establishing new security protocols, physical security surveys, inspections, and management controls. 5 Which of the following best describes your level of security operations to include use of security technology? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing security operations. I have experience in managing security operations. I have experience in managing security operations and experience in the operation of security technical equipment. I have experience in managing security operations, developing methods to safeguard institutional assets, and maintaining efficient security operations response with minimum experience in security technology. I am considered an expert in managing security operations, developing methods to safeguard institutional assets, and establishing and maintaining efficient security operations to include designing technical security programs for protection of government buildings on a 24-hour basis. 6 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in developing security plans? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in developing security plans to protect equipment and property. I have experience in developing security plans for the protection of equipment and property. I have experience in developing security plans for the protection of equipment, property and exhibits, and the storage of museum collections. I have experience in designing and developing security plans for the protection of high-value equipment, property, exhibit and assets, and the storage of museum collections and specimens. 7 Do you have experience serving as a subject matter expert and principal advisor providing advice in security issues for the protection of museums? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following best describes your knowledge in developing technical requirements and protocol for museum security? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in developing technical requirements for museum security. I have experience in developing technical requirements for museum security. I have experience in developing technical requirements for museum security and I also have knowledge of security policy requirements for the assignment of security guards. I have experience in developing technical requirements for museum security and I also have knowledge of security policy requirements for the assignment of security guards, as well as the development of technical reports and security-related materials. 9 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education, or training in responding to senior management requests and inquiries regarding security matters? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 Have you briefed a senior official (organization or agency leadership) on emergency preparedness or security operations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in evacuation efforts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in evacuation plans. I have experience in evacuation plans. I have experience in the development of evacuation plans and/or the implementation of action plans for government agencies. I have experience in the designing and development of evacuation plans and implementing action plans for government agencies. This includes serving as a coordinator and site supervisor for all emergency evacuation drills. I am considered an expert in developing, organizing, and directing emergency planning. This includes serving as a manager in law enforcement, emergency response and preparedness, and evacuation planning for local, state, and federal government agencies. 12 Which of the following demonstrates your ability to interact effectively within an organization and with the security representatives at other entities (ex: museums, site offices, etc.)? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided advice on matters relating to the physical security/security systems program. I have mastered oral and written communication techniques in order to explain and defend complex physical security/security systems concepts. I have interpreted guidelines dealing directly with physical security/security systems issues. I have worked with representatives as a regular part of my job. I have worked with other site offices and/or building as a regular part of my job. None of the above. Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 12 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate`s work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees I have motivated subordinates. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided recognition and reward for effective or outstanding performance. I have resolved complaints from employees. I have participated as a full member of the management team and serve as the focal point for administrative management within organization served. I have defined, analyzed, and prepared data and information on the planning and execution of strategic plans. I have applied principles and applications of organizational assessments, management intervention and change management, management indicators, effectiveness and efficiency measures, and measurement system design techniques to organizational problems. I have applied re-engineering business principles, measured performance via organizational assessments, and managed change by identifying problems and developing solutions. None of the above. 3 Which of the following best describes your level of experience managing and developing staff? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience, education or training in this skill. I have supervised staff and overseen training and development plans. I have implemented policies and techniques to select, supervise, and developed staff. I have led teams or committees to develop and implement policies and techniques to select, supervise, and develop staff. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experiences with providing information regarding procedures, provide instructions and resolve administrative, personnel and EEO issues? Answer to this question is required I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer giving orders and providing detailed instruction, explaining policies and procedures to subordinate staff in a clear, concise and timely manner regarding specific duties to conduct their daily activities; and providing technical advice, assistance and counseling to resolve complaints by employees or staff. I have experience as a security officer and/or law enforcement officer providing policies and procedures, and providing detailed instructions to staff and visitors. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had education, training or experience performing this task. 5 Which of the following best describes your knowledge in developing security theories, techniques, surveys, and inspections? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques. I have knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques. I have knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques, as well as experience resolving security problems and conducting physical security surveys. I have knowledge of security theories, principles, practices, and techniques, as well as experience establishing new security protocols, physical security surveys, inspections, and management controls. 6 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education or training in identifying security vulnerabilities and developing alternatives for corrective actions? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 7 Which of the following best describes your level of security operations to include use of security technology? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing security operations. I have experience in managing security operations. I have experience in managing security operations and experience in the operation of security technical equipment. I have experience in managing security operations, developing methods to safeguard institutional assets, and maintaining efficient security operations responses with minimum experience in security technology. I am considered an expert in managing security operations, developing methods to safeguard institutional assets, and establishing and maintaining efficient security operations to include designing technical security programs for protection of government. 8 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education or training in providing program direction to ensure that appropriate safeguards and security information is provided to solve technical problems affecting or likely to affect physical security? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing and mitigating security threats, risks, and vulnerabilities impacting critical infrastructure and assets? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in interpreting or applying security policies or compliance requirements. I have received education and training in security policies and compliance requirements but have not applied them in a leadership capacity. I have applied security policies and compliance requirements under the guidance of senior leadership. I have independently led the implementation of security policies and compliance programs within a program, division, or operational area. I have led the interpretation and implementation of complex security policies and compliance programs across multiple operational areas, and I regularly advise senior leadership on policy application and compliance matters. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience assessing and mitigating threats, risks, and vulnerabilities impacting personnel, operations, and critical assets? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training, or experience in threat assessment or risk mitigation. I have received training in threat assessment and risk management but have not applied it in a leadership capacity. I have applied threat assessment practices under supervision or senior leadership guidance. I have independently led threat and risk assessments and implemented mitigation strategies within a major program, jurisdiction, or operational area. I have led complex, enterprise-level threat and risk management efforts across multiple jurisdictions or operational areas, integrating intelligence, law enforcement information, and security data, and I routinely advise executive leadership on risk posture and protective strategies. 11 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in developing security plans? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in developing security plans to protect equipment and property. I have experience in developing security plans for the protection of equipment and property. I have experience in developing security plans for the protection of equipment, property and exhibits, and the storage of museum collections. I have experience in designing and developing security plans for the protection of high-value equipment, property, exhibit and assets, and the storage of museum collections and specimens. 12 Do you have experience serving as a subject matter expert and principal advisor providing advice in security issues for the protection of museums? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following best describes your knowledge in developing technical requirements and protocol for museum security? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in developing technical requirements for museum security. I have experience in developing technical requirements for museum security. I have experience in developing technical requirements for museum security and I also have knowledge of security policy requirements for the assignment of security guards. I have experience in developing technical requirements for museum security and I also have knowledge of security policy requirements for the assignment of security guards, as well as the development of technical reports and security-related materials. 14 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education or training in conducting research, developing briefing materials, and delivering briefings/presentations to senior management regarding protective force and physical security matters? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education, or training with overseeing, developing, revising, analyzing, and coordinating policies and guidance for physical security? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 16 Which of the following demonstrates your experience, education, or training in responding to senior management requests and inquiries regarding security matters? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job (independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee). This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 17 Have you briefed a senior official (organization or agency leadership) on emergency preparedness or security operations? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Do you have experience in developing emergency preparedness plans for government agencies responsible for the coordination of disaster response? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following best describes your level of experience in evacuation efforts? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in evacuation plans. I have experience in evacuation plans. I have experience in the development of evacuation plans and/or the implementation of action plans for government agencies. I have experience in the designing and development of evacuation plans and implementing action plans for government agencies. This includes serving as a coordinator and site supervisor for all emergency evacuation drills. I am considered an expert in developing, organizing, and directing emergency planning. This includes serving as a manager in law enforcement, emergency response and preparedness, and evacuation planning for local, state, and federal government agencies. 20 Which of the following demonstrates your ability to interact effectively within an organization and with the security representatives at other entities (ex: museums, site offices, etc.)? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided advice on matters relating to the physical security/security systems program. I have mastered oral and written communication techniques in order to explain and defend complex physical security/security systems concepts. I have interpreted guidelines dealing directly with physical security/security systems issues. I have worked with representatives as a regular part of my job. I have worked with other site offices and/or building as a regular part of my job. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.