Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 To be eligible for consideration to serve as a Junior Fellow, you: 1. Must be a U.S. citizen. 2. Must be currently enrolled at time of application at an accredited institution of higher learning at the undergraduate or graduate level, AND/OR have graduated or will graduate between January 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025. 3. Must be available for the full ten-week period (May 18 through July 24, 2026). Must attend mandatory orientation on May 18. 4. Must be available to work full-time schedule during core business hours of 6:30 am&ndash;6:00 pm EST.&nbsp; 5. Must be able to commute to the Library of Congress main campus in Washington, DC or Culpeper, VA (Projects 4 and 5) Monday-Friday. By submitting this application: you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith. Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I certify that I meet the eligibility criteria to apply for the 2026 Junior Fellows Summer Internship Program and that I understand that failure to submit a complete application will result in disqualification from consideration. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Have you previously held a position with the Library of Congress as a Junior Fellow? Answer to this question is required Yes, I have previously held a position as a Junior Fellow at the Library of Congress. No, I have not previously held a position as a Junior Fellow at the Library of Congress. 3 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 4 A legible copy of your latest college/university transcript is required with your online application. An unofficial transcript or copy of your degree are acceptable at the time of application. If you are unable to provide an unofficial transcript or copy of degree at time of application: you may submit a verified document from your institution's registrar office, a certification of enrollment via Clearinghouse, OR a copy of your degree that was obtained in 2025. Your transcript or equivalent document will be used to certify your eligibility for the program. Official transcripts will be required if selected for the position. Screenshots, JPEGS, Word or other text documents, and stand-alone course lists are not acceptable. Failure to submit the required legible documentation at the time of application will result in disqualification. Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a transcript, copy of degree, or other certified document with my application to verify that I am eligible for consideration. I understand that failure to provide valid certifying documentation will render my application ineligible for review. 5 Please indicate the statement that applies to you below. Note: In order to be eligible for consideration, you MUST be currently enrolled at time of application in a degree-granting program of study at an accredited institution of higher learning at the undergraduate level (college, university, or tribal college), or graduate level, AND/OR have graduated or will graduate between January 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025. Answer to this question is required I am currently enrolled in a degree-granting program of study at an accredited institution of higher learning at the undergraduate level or graduate level. My anticipated graduation date is in or after 2025. I have graduated or will soon graduate from a degree-granting program of study at an accredited institution of higher learning at the undergraduate or graduate level this year (between January 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025.) I graduated from a degree-granting program of study at an accredited institution of higher learning at the undergraduate or graduate level prior to 2025 and am not currently enrolled in a degree-granting program. None of the above. 6 Name of your current or most recent undergraduate or graduate institution. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Provide your anticipated graduation date and name of your current undergraduate or graduate institution OR graduation date and name of your most recent undergraduate or graduate institution. Note: In order to be eligible for consideration, you MUST be currently enrolled at time of application in a degree-granting program of study at an accredited institution of higher learning at the undergraduate level (college, university, or tribal college), or graduate level, AND/OR have graduated or will graduate between January 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025. Failure to meet this eligibility criteria will result in immediate disqualification of the application. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 List your current major(s) of study and, if applicable, your minor(s) of study. Note: A legible copy of your latest college/university transcript is required with your online application. An unofficial transcript or copy of your degree are acceptable at the time of application. If you are unable to provide an unofficial transcript or copy of degree at time of application: you may submit a verified document from your institution's registrar office, a certification of enrollment via Clearinghouse, OR a copy of your degree obtained in 2025. Failure to submit the required legible documentation at the time of application will result in disqualification. All transcripts and/or certifying documents must be in PDF file format. Image files, Word documents, etc. are not acceptable. Please refer to the full vacancy announcement for more information.&nbsp; Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Please select your first choice for placement from among the following 24 onsite projects. Answer to this question is required 01 Economic Research on Copyright and Creative Industries (Onsite) 02 Enhancing Access to Posters (Onsite) 03 Descriptive Cataloging for the Ilmar Mikiver Estonian Collection Materials (Onsite) 04 Office of War Information Collection Lacquer Processing (Onsite - Culpeper) 05 Universal Music Group Collection Lacquer Processing (Onsite - Culpeper) 06 A Nation Changed: Preserving the 9/11 Newspaper Collection (Onsite) 07 Sharing the Work of the Conservation Division (Onsite) 08 Illuminating Provenance: Capture and Catalogue of Historic Watermarks (Onsite) 09 Collections Preservation: Tangible Media and Digital Forensics (Onsite) 10 Visions of Modernity: Documenting 20th - Century Chinese Magazines and Journals (Onsite) 11 Enhancing Accessibility to an Ephemeral South Asia (Onsite) 12 Governing by Edict: Recording Legal Enactments of Pre-Revolutionary France (Onsite) 13 Organizing the Austro-Hungarian Empire: Creation of a Spatial Search Application (Onsite) 14 Inventorying Photographs of Political Development Moments in Sub-Saharan Africa (Onsite) 15 Mary Wolfskill Internship, Manuscript Reading Room (Onsite) 16 Hidden Voices: The Hebraic Pamphlets and Booklets Collection (Onsite) 17 Elizabeth Brown Pryor Internship, Manuscript Division Reading Room (Onsite) 18 Reconstituting Gao Hongcai’s Collection of Chinese Shandong Gazetteers (Onsite) 19 Exploring, Evaluating, and Enhancing Discoverability of Microfilm Resources (Onsite) 20 Providing Access to American History (Onsite) 21 Yiddish Bibliographic Records Metadata Enhancement Project (Onsite) 22 Finding our Place in the Cosmos with the Carl Sagan Book Collection (Onsite) 23 Providing Access via Descriptive Cataloging for Yudin Russian Collection (Onsite) 24 The Source for Teens: Engaging Teen Audiences in The Source: Creative Research Studio for Kids (Onsite) 10 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected first choice project. DO NOT paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Note: Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Please select your second choice for placement from among the following 24 onsite projects. Answer to this question is required 01 Economic Research on Copyright and Creative Industries (Onsite) 02 Enhancing Access to Posters (Onsite) 03 Descriptive Cataloging for the Ilmar Mikiver Estonian Collection Materials (Onsite) 04 Office of War Information Collection Lacquer Processing (Onsite - Culpeper) 05 Universal Music Group Collection Lacquer Processing (Onsite - Culpeper) 06 A Nation Changed: Preserving the 9/11 Newspaper Collection (Onsite) 07 Sharing the Work of the Conservation Division (Onsite) 08 Illuminating Provenance: Capture and Catalogue of Historic Watermarks (Onsite) 09 Collections Preservation: Tangible Media and Digital Forensics (Onsite) 10 Visions of Modernity: Documenting 20th - Century Chinese Magazines and Journals (Onsite) 11 Enhancing Accessibility to an Ephemeral South Asia (Onsite) 12 Governing by Edict: Recording Legal Enactments of Pre-Revolutionary France (Onsite) 13 Organizing the Austro-Hungarian Empire: Creation of a Spatial Search Application (Onsite) 14 Inventorying Photographs of Political Development Moments in Sub-Saharan Africa (Onsite) 15 Mary Wolfskill Internship, Manuscript Reading Room (Onsite) 16 Hidden Voices: The Hebraic Pamphlets and Booklets Collection (Onsite) 17 Elizabeth Brown Pryor Internship, Manuscript Division Reading Room (Onsite) 18 Reconstituting Gao Hongcai’s Collection of Chinese Shandong Gazetteers (Onsite) 19 Exploring, Evaluating, and Enhancing Discoverability of Microfilm Resources (Onsite) 20 Providing Access to American History (Onsite) 21 Yiddish Bibliographic Records Metadata Enhancement Project (Onsite) 22 Finding our Place in the Cosmos with the Carl Sagan Book Collection (Onsite) 23 Providing Access via Descriptive Cataloging for Yudin Russian Collection (Onsite) 24 The Source for Teens: Engaging Teen Audiences in The Source: Creative Research Studio for Kids (Onsite) 12 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected second choice project. DO NOT paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Note: Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Please select your third choice for placement from among the following 24 onsite projects. Answer to this question is required 01 Economic Research on Copyright and Creative Industries (Onsite) 02 Enhancing Access to Posters (Onsite) 03 Descriptive Cataloging for the Ilmar Mikiver Estonian Collection Materials (Onsite) 04 Office of War Information Collection Lacquer Processing (Onsite - Culpeper) 05 Universal Music Group Collection Lacquer Processing (Onsite - Culpeper) 06 A Nation Changed: Preserving the 9/11 Newspaper Collection (Onsite) 07 Sharing the Work of the Conservation Division (Onsite) 08 Illuminating Provenance: Capture and Catalogue of Historic Watermarks (Onsite) 09 Collections Preservation: Tangible Media and Digital Forensics (Onsite) 10 Visions of Modernity: Documenting 20th - Century Chinese Magazines and Journals (Onsite) 11 Enhancing Accessibility to an Ephemeral South Asia (Onsite) 12 Governing by Edict: Recording Legal Enactments of Pre-Revolutionary France (Onsite) 13 Organizing the Austro-Hungarian Empire: Creation of a Spatial Search Application (Onsite) 14 Inventorying Photographs of Political Development Moments in Sub-Saharan Africa (Onsite) 15 Mary Wolfskill Internship, Manuscript Reading Room (Onsite) 16 Hidden Voices: The Hebraic Pamphlets and Booklets Collection (Onsite) 17 Elizabeth Brown Pryor Internship, Manuscript Division Reading Room (Onsite) 18 Reconstituting Gao Hongcai’s Collection of Chinese Shandong Gazetteers (Onsite) 19 Exploring, Evaluating, and Enhancing Discoverability of Microfilm Resources (Onsite) 20 Providing Access to American History (Onsite) 21 Yiddish Bibliographic Records Metadata Enhancement Project (Onsite) 22 Finding our Place in the Cosmos with the Carl Sagan Book Collection (Onsite) 23 Providing Access via Descriptive Cataloging for Yudin Russian Collection (Onsite) 24 The Source for Teens: Engaging Teen Audiences in The Source: Creative Research Studio for Kids (Onsite) 14 In the box below, describe how your education, experience, and/or training support the knowledge and skills required for your selected third choice project. DO NOT paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Note: Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 In the box below, please describe how the Junior Fellows Program relates to your overall career goals and/or how you would benefit from working on your selected projects. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. DO NOT paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 2500 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 How did you first learn about the Junior Fellows Program? Answer to this question is required College or university faculty College or university career center Library of Congress social media (e.g. Instagram, Facebook, etc.) Library of Congress website (loc.gov) Library of Congress blog Library of Congress employee referral Library of Congress alumni referral LinkedIn Congressional referral Handshake/Symplicity Job recruitment board USAJobs Search engine Career fair or career event Other (please specify in box below) 17 If you learned about the Junior Fellows Program from another source, please specify below: Maximum length of 250 characters. 18 Please share any career or internship platforms you use to search for opportunities if not noted above: Maximum length of 350 characters. By submitting this application, you attest that: 1. You meet all of the eligibility criteria. 2. You understand that failure to submit a complete application by the deadline will result in disqualification from consideration. 3. You intend to commute to the Library of Congress main campus in Washington, DC or Culpeper, VA (Projects 4 and 5) to conduct work duties 5 days per week, Monday &ndash; Friday, for the entirety of the program (May 18, 2026 to July 24, 2026)&nbsp; 4. You understand that notices of selection or non-selection will be sent to you via email by the first week of April 2026.&nbsp; 5. You understand that it is your responsibility to ensure that your application is complete and accurate to the best of your knowledge by the deadline. (You will not be able to update or alter your application after the deadline has passed.)&nbsp; If you have any questions regarding this vacancy announcement or your application for the Junior Fellows Program, please email jobhelp@loc.gov. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).