Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 I have performed the following personnel management functions: Answer to this question is required Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results Reporting progress to senior management Implementing work completed Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects Performing annual performance evaluations None of the above 2 Which leadership skills have you routinely applied in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties to meet an objective. Provided guidance to others on how to handle unpleasant or difficult interactions. Persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult or hostile. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with people who had different perspectives or cultural backgrounds to achieve goals / objectives. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a goal / objective. Interacted with others to identify common interests. Led by example. None of the above. 3 Which option BEST reflects your highest level of experience applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying program management techniques. I have completed formal education or training on this topic. However, I have not performed this task on the job. I have experience establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and drafting performance measures and plans. This work was performed under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience implementing and reporting on the status of program management initiatives and performance measures that were established by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures, and identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. 4 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on issues where there are conflicting positions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues as part of a team effort. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience justifying and/or resolving complex and controversial issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 Which of the following BEST describes your background in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in foreign policy / international affairs. I have education or training in foreign policy / international affairs, but have not applied it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs as a regualar part of my job, and usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing work in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your background related to conventional military forces, conflicts, and technologies, including arms transfers, in the context of U.S. foreign policy? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience related to conventional military forces, conflicts, and technologies, including arms transfers, in the context of U.S. foreign policy. I have education, training or experience related to conventional military forces, conflicts, and technologies, including arms transfers, in the context of U.S. foreign policy, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely performed work related to conventional military forces, conflicts, and technologies, including arms transfers, in the context of U.S. foreign policy as part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work related to conventional military forces, conflicts, and technologies, including arms transfers, in the context of U.S. foreign policy as part of my job and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in performing work related to conventional military forces, conflicts, and technologies, including arms transfers, in the context of U.S. foreign policy and have trained others in this field and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of negotiating experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education or training in negotiating issues. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have defended my positions and negotiated specific issues under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I routinely and independently defend my positions and negotiate an array of issues under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I defend my positions and negotiate issues as a central or major part of my work. I perform this task routinely and usually independently. I consult with the supervisor OR a senior colleague in negotiating more complex issues. 9 From the following list, please identify those areas relative to conventional arms transfer issues in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Research, development, testing, and production of foreign conventional weapons systems Technical specifications and capabilities of foreign conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with foreign marketing and sales of advanced conventional weapons systems Processes and mechanisms associated with U.S. marketing and sales - both corporate and governmental - associated with conventional military systems U.S. and international mechanisms for controlling foreign transfer of conventional weapons to countries / entities of concern None of the above View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.