Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to work with library materials and information in at least one Slavic language.** Processed and managed library or other materials written in a Slavic language. These activities include verifying contents and accurately understanding, transliterating (as appropriate), and recording data elements including titles, dates of publication, and publishers written in a Slavic language or languages. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience processing or managing library or other collections materials written in a Slavic language with a working knowledge OR fluency and familiarity of a native speaker. Activities include verifying contents and accurately understanding, transliterating (as appropriate), and recording data elements including titles, dates of publication, and publishers written in a Slavic language. Has some experience processing or managing library of other collections materials written in a Slavic language utilizing college level or similar level of foreign language competency. Activities include verifying contents and accurately understanding, transliterating (as appropriate), and recording data elements including titles, dates of publication, and publishers written in a Slavic language. Has some experience processing or managing library of other collections materials written in a Slavic language utilizing college level or similar level of foreign language competency. Activities include verifying contents and accurately understanding data elements including titles, dates of publication, and publishers written in a Slavic language and using this understanding to sort or otherwise process collection materials. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to maintain materials in a library or archival collection.** Performed duties in support of maintenance of materials for a library or archival collection including: 1) examining collection materials through proper handling to assess physical condition, 2) performing basic preservation and conservation of materials such as re-housing and labeling, marking for identification and security, and performing shelving, shelf reading, and collection shifting, 3) identifying errors in labeling or catalog descriptions and taking appropriate corrective action, 4) accurately inputting into an automated system inventories and other data compiled during processing, 5) assuring materials comply with relevant institutional policies by format, and 6) preparing materials for reformatting, including collation and recording of publication metadata. Answer to this question is required Independently performed a range of archival procedures and operations, including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above. Independently performed a range of archival procedures and operations for AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above. Independently performed a range of archival procedures and operations, including THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to use computerized search tools, databases, and other computer applications. Used computerized search tools, databases, and applications including: 1) integrated library system modules to correct or update data elements such as holdings records, 2) database software (e.g., Access) to locate, update, or create records, 3) spreadsheet software (e.g., Excel) to track information related to work projects, and 4) word processing software (e.g., Word) to create narrative descriptions of work processes. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely used ALL of the above computerized search tools, databases and applications while performing a range of searches of various databases, organized, entered, and retrieved information, used computer applications to carry out varied tasks and determined and verified bibliographic or statistical information. Independently and routinely used THREE (3) of the above-computerized search tools, databases and applications while performing a range of searches of various databases. Organized, entered, and retrieved information. Independently and routinely used TWO (2) of the above-computerized search tools, databases and applications while performing a range of searches of various databases. Organized, entered, and retrieved information. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to process library materials. Demonstrated the ability to identify and understand bibliographic elements; process materials in print, microfilm and/or electronic formats; and organize, arrange, and shelve cataloged materials. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive/thorough knowledge of experience identifying and understanding bibliographic records, processing materials in print, microfilm and/or electronic formats, organizing, arranging, and shelving materials from library collections. Demonstrated broad knowledge of experience identifying and understanding bibliographic records, processing materials in print, microfilm and/or electronic formats, organizing, arranging, and shelving materials from library collections. Demonstrated proficiency identifying and understanding bibliographic records, processing materials in print, microfilm and/or electronic formats, organizing, arranging, and shelving materials from library collections. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 12 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).