Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Write/Communicate in Writing. ** Drafted clear, cogent, well-organized legal and policy documents. Examples include: 1) legal memos, 2) position papers,3) analytical studies, 4) documents reviewing and analyzing statutes and regulations, 5) court briefs, and 6) policy and procedural documents. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience preparing complex copyright and/or administrative legal documents and materials including independently preparing ALL of the examples above. Extensive experience preparing complex copyright and/or administrative legal documents and materials including independently preparing FIVE (5) of the above. Extensive experience preparing complex copyright and/or administrative legal documents and materials including independently preparing FOUR (4) of the above. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Conduct Legal Research. ** Performed in-depth legal research and analyzed and evaluated information to prepare written materials on legal or policy issues. Answer to this question is required Extensive experience researching and preparing complex legislative, judicial and/or regulatory proposals responding to policy inquiries from top agency executives. Experience independently researching and writing legal publications or reports on administrative law, copyright and/or other areas of Title 17. Some of the publications are recognized as having a significant impact on the legal issue on a national level. Examples include Primary author of Supreme Court or appellate court brief in major copyright suit, principal author of report to Congress on new and controversial copyright issue. Extensive experience researching and preparing complex copyright legal documents and materials. Experience independently writing legal publications or reports on copyright and/or other areas of Title 17. Independently wrote legal or policy documents or analyses on significant issues. The writings were published, filed with courts, or submitted to a legislative or governmental body. Examples include Drafted copyright bill, authored several briefs on copyright issues. Extensive experience researching and preparing documents and materials on intellectual property issues (copyrights, trademarks, and/or trade secrets). Has independently managed cases and prepared reports of activities. Experience writing legal reports or other documents related to copyright or other areas of Title 17. Some of the papers have shown the applicant to be a contributor to the field of copyright or communications law as evidenced by their publication in professional journals. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of Copyright. ** Demonstrated knowledge of copyright law, other aspects of Title 17 and/or administrative law. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an expert on the current status of copyright issues and a wide range of primarily domestic complex copyright issues. Examples: Authored a book on copyright law or history. Taught advanced copyright and/or communication law courses; chaired bar association committee on intellectual property which conducted a major copyright project; appeared as principal attorney in litigation or hearings on copyright. Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of the current status of copyright issues and a wide range of primarily domestic complex copyright issues. Examples: Published several articles on copyright law; taught an introductory course on copyright law; and/or served on a bar association panel discussing copyright issues. Experience demonstrating considerable knowledge of the current status of copyright issues and a range of primarily domestic complex copyright issues. Examples: Served on more than one occasion as a guest speaker on copyright program; published an article on copyright law; and/or served on a bar association committee on copyright. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Knowledge of Administrative Law. ** Demonstrated knowledge of administrative law or regulatory processes. Work experience demonstrated extensive knowledge of the principles, concepts and techniques or practices of administrative law and the functions of a regulatory agency. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an expert in the field of administrative law and/or agency rulemaking with knowledge of related complex issues and programs. Examples: Served as a faculty member and/or managed a variety of research related to administrative law or agency rulemaking; consulted on these subjects with national decision-makers in the public or private sector; developed, implemented, and evaluated programs in either area. Managed assignments, developing, implementing, and evaluating an important program for an agency or a sizeable region, bureau, or equivalent organization, or served as the agency expert on an inter-agency task force to develop new policies or programs of national or international significance. Recognized by decision-makers as a professional resource with extensive experience in administrative law and/or agency rulemaking. Examples: Served as an agency representative on an inter-agency task force developing policies in these areas: published several articles in peer-reviewed professional journals in these areas, worked in senior position in administrative agency. Experience demonstrates practice with agency rulemaking or administrative law. Examples: Courses taken in administrative law, agency rulemaking or related subjects; experience in drafting complex rulemaking proceedings; has designed a major policy development study or project evaluation study for significant agency program; or has developed recommendations on complex and controversial issues critical to the agency’s programs. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Meet and Deal with Others. Developed and maintained relationships with a variety of individuals to accomplish the position&rsquo;s duties. Answer to this question is required Substantial experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials at the policy making level and their senior staff, including Members of Congress, staff and officials in other agencies, and individuals of recognized professional standing in copyright. Regularly led and participated in discussions on legal and policy issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials at the policy making level and their senior staff, including staff and officials in other agencies, and individuals of recognized professional standing in copyright. Led and participated in discussions on legal and policy issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. Experience developing and maintaining relationships with officials at the policy making level and their senior staff and individuals of recognized professional standing in copyright. Participated in discussions on legal and policy issues related to copyright to gather and disseminate information, influence, motivate or question persons or groups. None of the Above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to Convey Legal Analysis and Information Orally Through Briefings, Consultations, and Other Presentations. Communicated analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. This includes targeting the amount, form, level of detail and content of information based on the needs of the receiver/audience. Answer to this question is required Presented analysis of complex and controversial copyright issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous. Examples include briefing and responding to questions from policymakers, participating on panel(s) discussing copyright issues. Presented analysis on a variety of copyright issues of national and/or international significance to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to copyright law. Examples include, giving presentations to government, private sector, colleagues, clients, and general audiences. Presented analysis on a variety of copyright issues to audiences with varying levels of expertise. Settings were planned and extemporaneous to discuss and clarify legal and policy matters related to copyright law. Examples include, giving presentations to government, private sector, colleagues, clients, and general audiences. None of the Above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).