Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as: Procuring supplies, materials, and services using a Government Purchase Card or company purchase card;&nbsp;Utilizing automated computerized supply/inventory management systems and Microsoft Office software programs to create reports;&nbsp;Utilizing a financial management system to reconcile credit card accounts on a recurring basis to resolve discrepancies; and&nbsp;Resolving routine purchasing disputes with stakeholders through oral and written communication using cooperative negotiation 2 Do you have experience administering a company/office procurement purchase card? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Do you have experience utilizing commercial and non-commercial buying practices? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which aspects of vendor performance do you have experience evaluating? Answer to this question is required Pricing Delivery timeliness Product/Service quality Product availability Past performance None of the above 5 Do you have experience prioritizing purchasing requests for action? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the tasks that you have performed related to requests for quotations? Answer to this question is required I have used catalogs and trade manuals to develop accurate descriptions. I have solicited for quotations orally. I have solicited for quotations in writing. I have solicited for quotations for purchases over the micro purchase threshold. I have solicited for quotations for purchases greater than $25,000. I have analyzed price quotes for adherence to the requirement. I have analyzed price quotes for best value. None of the above 7 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience processing procurement transactions? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which alternative strategies have you used to complete purchasing tasks efficiently? Answer to this question is required Changed payment method Set up a blanket purchase order Combined orders Amended purchase orders Written Request for Quotes (RFQs) None of the above 9 Select the duties that you performed to solicit, analyze, negotiate, award, and administer contracts. Answer to this question is required Reviewed and assisted with customer's requirement development. Developed procurement strategies. Solicited and analyzed proposals. Negotiated with vendors. Drafted contract documentation for award. Performed contract administration tasks, such as issuing modifications, approving invoices, close-out, etc. None of the above. 10 How have you resolved purchasing problems? Answer to this question is required Ordered a small quantity of emergency supplies Negotiated a no-cost change with the vendor Advised vendors of purchasing rules Disputed charges with vendors Arranged for the return of mis-delivered items None of the above 11 Do you have experience responding to multiple time sensitive requests from different customers? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Do you have experience verbally communicating with customers who disagree with policies or procedures? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Select the response that best describes your experience explaining administrative procedures or regulations to others. Answer to this question is required I have not explained procedures or regulations to others. I have clarified simple questions about procedures or regulations with others (e.g., which form to use). I have provided detailed explanations or tutorials about a complicated, multi-step procedure to others (e.g., competitive bidding). I have explained the reasons for procedures or regulations to individuals who are resistant to following them. 14 For which purposes have you verbally communicated with others in the workplace? Answer to this question is required To explain purchasing rules To outline the steps in the supply ordering process To request detailed information about requested items To verify that items purchased arrived as expected To investigate the location of delivered items None of the above 15 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required I have experience working with others to resolve unique or complex issues in a manner that reflected a partnership or shared problem solving. I have experience working with others to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis such as briefings on new or revised priorities and discussing alternatives. I have experience that involved educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals to address issues or problems. I have developed rapport and established credibility to resolve issues that were mutually satisfactory to all parties. I have experience that involved explaining agency policy and procedures and provided the rationale for such policies. Used negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 16 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, or direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. None of the above. 17 From the list below, identify the functions you have routinely performed using automated information systems. Answer to this question is required Establish and maintain databases Input and retrieve data Prepare charts, graphs and/or spreadsheets Prepare correspondence Prepare reports Prepare slides for presentations Receive and respond to e-mails Schedule and coordinate appointments and/or meetings using electronic calendars Track the status of actions and requests None of the above 18 From the list below, select the software applications you are proficient using: Answer to this question is required E-mail Microsoft Word Excel PowerPoint Internet Jet Forms Filler MAXIMO FPD FPDS Microsoft Access Financial Management System (FMS Momentum) None of the Above 19 From the list below, select the software applications you are proficient using: Answer to this question is required E-mail Microsoft Word Excel PowerPoint Internet MAXIMO Microsoft Access Financial Management System (FMS Momentum) None of the Above 20 Have you performed a line by line analysis of an invoice to ensure accuracy? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Which tasks have you performed to maintain stock of supplies or equipment? Answer to this question is required Verified low inventory levels Competed bids to multiple vendors Replenished inventory Transmitted a purchase order to vendors Developed supply plans Processed purchase orders Solicit bid proposals Determined ordering lead time Evaluated available storage/staging space Reviewed requisitions None of the above 22 Which purchasing problems have you identified? Answer to this question is required Discrepancies between amount ordered and amount invoiced Discrepancies between item quoted and item delivered Discrepancies between price quoted and price invoiced Receipt of damaged goods Delivery of supplies to the incorrect location / point of contact None of the above 23 Do you have experience reviewing documents for completion and required approvals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 24 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 24.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.