Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. I have a bachelor's from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that included or was supplemented by supervised student teaching, and at least one course in each of the following areas: general psychology, human development, history and/or philosophy of education, and teaching methods at the learning level of the position to be filled, i.e., elementary or secondary learning level. For secondary school teaching positions, applicants must also have had at least 24 semester hours (or the equivalent) of course work in each of the principal fields of instruction. OR I have a combination of education and experience--Applicants who have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree, but who do not meet the specific course requirements shown above meet minimum qualification requirements if they have completed at least one full academic year of professional teaching experience at the elementary or secondary school level as appropriate to the position to be filled. Professional teaching experience is defined as full and primary responsibility for the instruction of assigned students under general supervision in a recognized or accredited school or other accredited educational institution. This includes responsibility for preparation and presentation of lessons and the evaluation of students' progress throughout the learning period, including a determination of the students' success or failure according to established criteria. OR I have a teacher certification or licensure in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth or Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in C. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, B, or C. NOTE: ALL applicants using Option A or B to qualify MUST submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement. The education MUST be from an institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants using Option C to qualify, MUST submit proof of Teacher certification or licensure. Your documentation MUST be received by the Consolidated Staffing Unit by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Supervisor of Education must be able to converse effectively and speak clearly and concisely with all types of people internal and external to the Agency. They must interact with Executive Staff, Central Office and regional administrators, teachers, complex inmate/student populations, contractors, volunteers, institution staff, and other outside individuals.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented specific case information to Executive Staff; and/or I have successfully resolved a work-related issue with the Union; and/or I have advised management officials on local Education Department requirements. I have presented information to staff during Annual Training; and/or I have provided Admission and Orientation (A&O) to newly incarcerated inmates; and/or I have participated in Community Relations Board (CRB) Meeting. I have given a presentation during a Community Relations Board Meeting; and/or I have served as alternate public information officer; and/or I have acted as a hostage negotiator; and/or I have prevented an argument between two inmates/students from escalating to the point of violence; and/or I have led a facility tour for external attendees. None of the above 4 The Supervisor of Education must be able to communicate in writing in a clear and concise manner. They must prepare correspondence related to educational needs and programs, audits, policy statements, as well as prepare information memoranda for the inmate/student population.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served on a work group which resulted in development of national policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries originating from an outside agency; and/or I have written an article which was posted on a web page or in a professional journal/newsletter. I have prepared responses to Congressional inquiries for the Warden/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) within the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have prepared correspondence to reply to an inmate/student family for Chief Executive Officer (CEO) signature; and/or I have developed correspondence to local civic leaders and/or Community Relations Board (CRB) members. I have prepared written responses as a participant in an Operational Review or comparable internal audit in the private sector; and/or I have written a memorandum for all department heads explaining newly established procedures; and/or I have edited institution/Agency newsletter. None of the above 5 The Supervisor of Education supervises a number of staff including managing and directing the work of the entire organizational unit. They participate in a number of meetings and committees and evaluate staff under their supervision.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with employees on a regular basis to provide feedback on their performance and take corrective action when warranted; and/or I have tracked assignments to ensure deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have served as mentor for local employees through formal mentoring program. I have provided subordinate feedback on a quarterly basis; and/or I have supervised and organized work assignments for line staff; and/or I have developed and scheduled required training for staff for career advancement, knowledge, and skill enhancement/improvement. I have identified employee deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have negotiated labor-management issues with the Union; and/or I have developed a mentoring plan for staff. None of the above 6 The Supervisor of Education must continuously analyze information regarding education programs and/or services and formulate new or adjust existing policies, plans or programs. Participation must involve course and curriculum development, redesign, and/or innovative development of instructional methodology.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentation of suggestions for future education research; and/or I have analyzed employee performance and made recommendations for training; and/or I have served on an operational review team and recommended corrective action; and/or I have examined budgets and/or policies and determined needs for the year; and/or I have utilized annual reports for procedural changes in programs and/or scheduling. I have participated on a task force/team which analyzed problems with inmate/student management and recommended appropriate disciplinary procedures; and/or I have collected information and made recommendations to increase institution security; and/or I have analyzed computer data and made recommendation for development of programs/procedures to increase inmate/client/student participation; and/or I have analyzed budget and contract expenditures and made recommendations for cost saving measures. I have generated computer programs database roster to analyze institution education statistics; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations with similar facility; and/or I have reviewed curriculums annually to ensure compliance with standard. None of the above 7 The Supervisor of Education is responsible for determining program needs for the total student (inmate) population and is responsible for monitoring the range of programs in both the education and recreation areas. He/she is ultimately responsible for test scores and other sensitive parts of the educational process.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted with the development and implementation of lesson plans and applications of various programs and techniques; and/or I have participated as a resource person at an educational conference or meeting on advances and innovations in educational techniques; and/or I have assisted with development and implementation of new educational/recreational programs. I have served as an administrator for a school system, high school or similar experienced role developing and administering various educational programs utilizing various teaching techniques; and/or I have supervised the creation of electronic teaching modalities for the use in education and recreation curricula and instruction (i.e., programed instruction platforms, audiovisual aids, and other media); and/or I have lectured at a formal education conference or meeting on advances and innovations in educational techniques. I have instructed others in teaching skills; and/or I have assisted with the development of a curriculum; and/or I have assisted in preparation for a large-scale education conference/staff training/meeting; and/or I have assisted in planning, establishing and/or updating an educational/recreational program. None of the above 8 The Supervisor of Education is responsible for the overall development and implementation of effective programs which will meet the educational needs of a complex student population found within a correctional environment or similar educational system.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have been part of a national work group which developed a national curricula; and/or I have been part of a research group that developed statistics in identifying a particular program need; and/or I have led a public school teacher consortium in the application of a newly identified and developed program; and/or I have researched and scheduled education wellness, and/or other self-improvement programs conducive to targeted audiences and participants in community, prison, and/or other institutional settings to ensure the maximum participation level; and/or I have managed multiple department staff work schedules and developed program schedules to best meet both staff and participant needs in school, prison, and/or community/institutional settings. I have developed and implemented an overall comprehensive program; and/or I have designed and implemented programs for students with complicated and specialized needs; and/or I have assessed resource needs and submitted external funding requests for programs; and/or I have developed programs to target different cultural and ethnic backgrounds; and/or I have assessed the interests of the population/student body and modified evening or weekend programs. I have developed a schedule for literacy, English as a Second Language (ESL), vocational, occupational, or apprenticeship training programs, job skill readiness assessment, post-secondary education, and/or parenting a correctional institution, military installation or similar learning institution; and/or I have assisted in planning, developing and/or updating programs with the supervisor; and/or I have established a newly developed program for education and/or recreation. None of the above Grade: All Grades 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).