Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Which of the following describes your experience with facility operation services? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed the design and development of facility operations of a museum. I have managed the operation of facilities of a museum. I have experience with large-scale facilities planning and work development on a museum site. I have managed the design and development of facility operations of a public site other than a museum. I have managed the operation of facilities of a public site other than a museum. I have experience with large-scale facilities planning and work development on a public site other than a museum site. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating the design and development of facility operations of a museum. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating the operation of facilities of a museum. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating the design and development of facility operations of a public site other than a museum. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating the operation of facilities of a public site other than a museum. None of the above. 3 Which of the following describes your experience with phases of construction of a building equivalent in size to a museum? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience with construction codes and methods. I have experience with reading architectural or engineering drawings and specifications. I have experience with inspecting renovation and construction projects. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience with a museum&rsquo;s development of feasibility and requirements studies for facility-related projects? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently planned or overseen a museum’s development of feasibility and requirements studies for facility-related projects in programmatic areas. I have independently planned or overseen a museum’s development of feasibility and requirements studies for facility-related projects in laboratories. I have independently planned or overseen a museum’s development of feasibility and requirements studies for facility-related projects in museum collections. None of the above. 5 As a COTR, which of the following activities have you performed on a recurring basis? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared Scopes of Work. I have prepared Requests for Proposal. I have negotiated contracts. I have administered contracts. I have evaluated contracts. I have recommended the termination of contracts. None of the above. 6 Which of the following contracting special clauses have you written on a recurring basis? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written proposal evaluation criteria. I have written testing requirements. I have written special vested rights. I have written rights-in-data. I have written price adjustments. I have written cost reimbursable clauses. None of the above. 7 In which of the following areas have you worked with the physical requirements of a museum? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed safety of visitors and staff. I have managed environmental controls. I have managed energy conservation. I have managed Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) recertification requirements. I have managed sustainability. I have managed cleanliness. I have managed methods for the care of landmark buildings. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating safety of visitors and staff. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating environmental controls. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating energy conservation. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) recertification requirements. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating sustainability. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating cleanliness. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating methods for the care of landmark buildings. None of the above. 8 Which of the following functions have you performed in a museum? &nbsp; (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed hazardous and non-hazardous materials handling. I have managed emergency preparedness. I have managed security. I have managed disaster planning. I have managed continuity of operations. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating hazardous and non-hazardous materials handling. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating emergency preparedness. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating security. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating disaster planning. I have served as a senior specialist on a team coordinating continuity of operations. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience negotiating with high level officials in an organization that resulted in frequent implementation of your recommendations? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience independently negotiating with organizational officials in a museum setting on operations management issues by independently preparing written presentations for high level officials either internally or externally to the organization. I have experience negotiating independently with organizational officials in a public facility other than a museum on operations management issues by independently preparing written presentations for high level officials either internally or externally to the organization. I have experience negotiating as part of a team with organizational officials in either a museum or other public facility on operations management issues by preparing input on written presentations for high level officials either internally and externally to the organization. None of the above. 10 Which of the following officials in an organization have you negotiated on a recurring basis? (Select all that apply). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have negotiated with construction engineers and architects. I have negotiated with builders. I have negotiated with security officials. I have negotiated with landscape architects. I have negotiated with safety and health officials. I have negotiated with retail managers. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience leading organizational staff? (Select only one answer) Answer to this question is required I have served as a supervisor in a museum or public facility in a facilities operation department. I have served as a team or work leader in a museum or public facility in a facilities operation department. I have served as a supervisor, team leader or senior specialist in any other organization. None of the above. 12 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.