Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising employees who perform installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of electrical wiring systems, fixtures, controls, and equipment? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising this type of employee. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. In a team lead role, I directed technical electrician work performed by others and provided feedback to employees about proper procedures. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, set work schedules, managed performance). 2 Which types of documents or instructions have you used to read and interpret electrical equipment and/or systems independently? (Select all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Building plans Blueprints Engineering or wiring sketches Wiring diagrams Operation and Maintenance Manuals Technical Guides None of the above. 3 Which of the following task(s) have you performed independently to ensure proper and safe operation of electrical systems? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Install wiring Install conduits Install starters Install relays Install transformers Install circuit breakers Install Variable Frequency Drives (VFD) Install Automatic Transfer Switches (ATS) Install Motor Control Centers (MCS) None of the above 4 Please describe the types of electrical systems or equipment you have independently operated, maintained, calibrated, repaired, or conducted troubleshooting on. Include any specific systems, devices, or controls you have worked with, and indicate if you performed the work independently or while serving as a lead or supervisor. Please include the organization you worked at and the job title you held while performing this work. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Have you independently sized, installed, and relocated electrical outlets and switches on new or existing circuits? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Have you independently sized and installed electrical disconnects and safety switches (fused or non-fused)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Have you independently sized and installed electrical transformers used in electrical distribution systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I have independently installed, modified, operated, maintained, calibrated, troubleshot, and repaired lighting control systems.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required True 8.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 250 characters. False 9 Do you currently hold an electrical license or certification?&nbsp; If yes, provide the type of license, license number/ID, and the issuing state or jurisdiction.&nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 List the following information : type of license, license number/ID, and issuing state or jurisdiction. Maximum length of 500 characters. No 10 Which tasks have you performed to direct and supervise the work of employees? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Scheduled employees. Reviewed and reinforced safety procedures with employees. Independently identified job hazards and implemented or directed corrective action to ensure compliance with safety standards and procedures. Reviewed employee work performance to ensure proper use of safety equipment. Prioritized work orders or projects. Assigned work orders or projects to employees. Provided technical guidance and instruction to employees and ensured work was completed safely, correctly, and to standard. Identified inefficiencies and implemented improvements to improve employees' job performance. Developed and implemented employee work improvement plans. None of the above 11 Select all systems for which you have had direct responsibility for operation, maintenance, or troubleshooting, either independently or while supervising others. Answer to this question is required DDC (Direct Digital Control) systems BASNET or other Building Automation Systems (BAS) Programmable Logic Controls (PLC) Lighting control systems Other systems not listed None of the above 12 Have you independently diagnosed improper operation or malfunctions in an electrical system with no supervision?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please specify : 1) The type of system or equipment, 2) The nature of the problem, 3) the actions you took to identify and correct it, 4) If you were supervising others while performing this work. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 13 Do you have experience implementing and holding employees accountable for appropriate safety procedures, such as lock out, tag out, and the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Which of the following tasks have you performed while serving as a lead or supervisor responsible for other employees? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Made promotion decisions Set performance goals for subordinates Performed formal performance appraisal documentation for subordinate staff Interviewed job applicants for hire Resolved informal complaints and grievances Recommended personnel actions Recommended training or professional development opportunities for subordinates Reviewed and approved or disapproved leave requests Tracked employee leave usage None of the above 15 Do you have experience using a computer system to report, track, or document maintenance and repair work independently?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which of the following electrical test equipment or measurement equipment have you used independently and trained others to use properly? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Ohm meters Watt-meters Amp-meters Milliamp meters Ground Fault indicators Amp probes Frequency meters Surge Test Equipment Phase meters Motor meggers (megohmmeters) None of the above 17 Which of the following electrical troubleshooting tasks have you independently performed to diagnose and correct electrical system malfunctions? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Used electrical test equipment (e.g., multimeters, clamp meters, or megohmmeters) to diagnose electrical circuit problems Diagnosed faults in branch circuits such as shorts, opens, or grounding issues Troubleshot motor or motor control circuits to determine the cause of equipment malfunction Diagnosed failures in electrical distribution equipment such as transformers, circuit breakers, or disconnects Determined root causes of electrical system failures and identified corrective actions None of the above 18 Which conduit bending device(s) have you used independently? (Select all that apply)&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Manual Electric Hydraulic Heat None of the above. 19 Do you have experience revising electrical plans in the field when blueprints/diagrams are incorrect or incomplete? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Have you completed the installation of full wiring systems for commercial occupied facilities independently and with little to no supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 21.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.