Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience coordinating budget preparations? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed solutions to budget formulation, justification, and presentation problems for my organization/office/bureau. I have recommended budgetary changes to proposed program budgets. I have been responsible for budget formulation, justification or execution for my assigned program areas. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in budget formulation? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed narrative justifications and project funding needs, ensuring that the data in requests are formally and accurately documented in a variety of unrelated forms/schedules/reports. I have analyzed financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and budgetary actions. I have provided procedural guidance concerning the submission format of annual estimated funding needs. I have assisted in developing budget requests and related supporting documentation. I have estimated funding needs as it relates to the mission and strategic plan. I have compiled fiscal data in spreadsheets. I have calculated the effects of pay raise adjustments and inflation on program budgets. I have assessed the impact of changes in programs and regulations on salaries, travel, benefits, overtime, and related expenses to the unit's budget. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following best describes your specific experience, education, or training that demonstrates your skill in effectively communicating complex financial and budgetary issues to executive-level management? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience communicating complex financial and budgetary issues to unit and institutional executive management and recommended plans of action to resolve issues. I have limited experience communicating complex financial and budgetary issues to unit and institutional executive management. I have prepared support documents that were used to communicate complex financial and budgetary issues to unit and institutional executive management. I have no experience communicating complex financial and budgetary issues to executive-level management. 7 Which of the statement best describes your highest level of experience in organizing, monitoring, and analyzing financial data and records in order to reconcile reports, resolve discrepancies, and prepare reports? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 8 Which of the following best describes your education, training, or experience in maintaining accounts and preparing fiscal data for budget execution? Answer to this question is required I have maintained accounts and prepared fiscal data for budget execution on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have maintained accounts and prepared fiscal data for budget execution as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience or training in maintaining accounts and preparing fiscal data for budget execution. I have had education or training in maintaining accounts and preparing fiscal data for budget execution but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have maintained accounts and prepared fiscal data for budget execution as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 9 Which of the following budget execution activities have you performed in support of your organization? (check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance on obligations incurred, expenditures and availability of funds. I have provided guidance on appropriation law and/or budget policy. I have transferred funds between organizations and/or descriptive classes, such as object classes and/or line items of the budget. I have verified that obligations and expenditures are within amounts programmed. I have monitored the execution of a program budget according ro allocations and guidelines. I have complied with organization's budget formulation and execution requirements, including planning, analysis, formulation, jusrtification, execution, and review of total ytearly budget providing financial management advice to management advice to management and coordinating all accounts and activities. I have reconciled expenditure eocords or reports with authorized fund commitments. I have evaluated budgetary and fiscal data for consistency with previous estimates, current level of program operations, and anticipated changes in mission, staffing, and/or funding levels. I have managed and reported budget execution during fiscal year end closeout. I have worked with management in preparation of budgetary documents, narrative and statistical justifications and supporting statements and exhibits. I have not performed any of the above functions. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience supporting the oversight, development, implementation and monitoring of multiple department and office programs from a financial standpoint? Answer to this question is required I have experience supporting the oversight, development, implementation and monitoring of multiple department and office programs from a financial standpoint. I have experience supporting the oversight, development, implementation and monitoring of multiple department and office programs. I have experience supporting the oversight, development, implementation and monitoring of department programs. I have experience supporting the oversight, development, and implementation of department programs. I have experience supporting the oversight and development of department programs. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience assisting program managers with preparing goals, objectives, and performance measures that are consistent with budget requests for program, travel, purchases, and personnel, including providing input for a variety of internal administrative reports? Answer to this question is required I have experience assisting program managers with preparing goals, objectives, and performance measures that are consistent with budget requests for program, travel, purchases, and personnel, including providing input for a variety of internal administrative reports. I have experience assisting program managers with preparing goals, objectives, and performance measures that are consistent with budget requests for program, travel, purchases, and personnel. I have experience assisting program managers with preparing goals, objectives, and performance measures that are consistent with budget requests. I have experience assisting program managers with preparing goals, objectives, and performance measures. I have experience assisting program managers with preparing goals and objectives. I do not have related experience. 12 Do you have experience providing input to policy, procedures, and guidance concerning legal and regulatory aspects of the acquisition of funds for program and administrative purposes? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following best describes your experience disseminating current policies and procedures relating to budget and finance matters to fund managers through workshops, meetings, training and/or emails? Answer to this question is required I have experience disseminating current policies and procedures relating to budget and finance matters to fund managers through workshops, meetings, training and/or emails. I have experience disseminating current policies and procedures relating to budget and finance matters to fund managers through workshops, meetings, and training. I have experience disseminating current policies and procedures relating to budget and finance matters to fund managers through workshops and meetings. I have experience disseminating current policies and procedures relating to budget and finance matters to fund managers through workshops. I have experience disseminating current policies and procedures relating to budget and finance matters to fund managers. I do not have related experience. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.