Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 To meet the Minimum Qualifications Requirements for an Accounting position you must meet one of the positive education requirements described below. Answer to this question is required I have a Degree in Accounting or a Degree in a related field such as Business Administration, Finance, or Public Administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in Accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. I have a combination of education and experience: At least 4 years of accounting experience or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing courses, which may include up to 6 hours of business law, OR a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor. I do not meet any of the above requirements. 2 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Leadership Experience: I have experience in leading and coordinating projects, including establishing expectations, reviewing work products/services, monitoring progress, and providing guidance and feedback to team members.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have experience in managing financial accounting processes, system environments, and reporting activities to ensure accurate and reliable organizational financial information. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have experience in applying and coordinating accounting policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements across organizational units and providing guidance on financial system functionality and operational accounting issues. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 I have the Minimum Qualification Experience obtained in private industry or a government agency. Technical Experience: I have experience in analyzing accounting transactions, assessing financial outcomes, and communicating findings to decision-makers. Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Applicants MUST submit copies of their proof of education unless they meet one of the exceptions as described in the job opportunity announcement; Failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement may result in an Ineligible rating. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable; Official transcripts will only be obtained if selected. Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 To meet the eligibility requirements for this vacancy announcement, you must provide the applicable supporting documentation to prove Competitive Service Status as outlined in the &lsquo;Required Documents&rsquo; section of this announcement. Failure to provide all of the required and applicable documentation as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible determination or may affect your consideration status. Multiple documents may be necessary to verify eligibility. Does your application package include the applicable supporting documentation? If unsure, please email the contact the person listed on this job opportunity announcement before the closing date. Unfortunately, we are unable to accept any supporting documents to determine your eligibility after the closing date. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Current or Former Career SES members you may be required to provide additional documentation&nbsp; &nbsp; The FDIC Corporate Experts, Executive and Corporate Managers (i.e., CX, EM, and CM) are in the Federal competitive service and not in the Senior Executive Service (SES).&nbsp; &nbsp; SES members must submit multiple SF-50s that show (1) current or former career SES appointment, and (2) proof of a career or career-conditional tenure (codes 1 or 2, in block 24); and position occupied in the competitive service (code 1, in block 34). &nbsp; SES members without competitive service career status are eligible to use any other applicable special appointing authorities.&nbsp; &nbsp; Failure to provide all the required and applicable eligibility documentation as stated in this JOA&rsquo;s &ldquo;Required Documents&rdquo; section may result in an ineligible determination affecting your status consideration. &nbsp; &nbsp; Does your application package include the applicable eligibility documentation? Please e-mail JOA contact person if unsure. Answer to this question is required Yes No Not Applicable (N/A) 9 Acknowledgement of complete application: I understand that I must do the following : &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide an up-to-date resume, supporting documentation (as applicable), and assessment questionnaire responses to reflect the qualifications and eligibility requirements of this position by the closing date. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Provide details of the duties performed as they relate to the qualifying experience on my resume. Experience must be explicitly stated in the resume as experience not specifically described in the resume cannot be assumed. Resumes that are vague or don't address the specific requirements will not receive maximum consideration. &bull; &nbsp; &nbsp;Additionally, I will be prepared to provide specific examples of my qualifying experience if I am invited for an interview. Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).