Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-8 grade level or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-08 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am currently at the GS/GL-08 grade level and will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-08 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement, however I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I am currently at the GS/GL-07 grade level, and will be at the GS/GL-07 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS/GL-07 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS/GL-07 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS/GL-09 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS/GL-08 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS/GL-07 or GS/GL-08 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS/GL-07. I was not previously in the GS/GL pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS/GL pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GL/GS-09 or higher, are in a job with a career ladder of GL/GS-09, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GL/GS-09 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GL/GS-09 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS/GL-09, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS/GL-08 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS/GL employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS/GL-09 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS/GL-09 grade level or higher. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (i.e, Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Administrative Support Coordinator compose non-technical correspondence for a variety of issues and subjects. Additionally, he/she is required to review work prepared by others for clarity of content, grammatical correctness and typographical errors. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared minutes and notes for internal staff meetings and other gatherings; and/or I have, as instructed, prepared itineraries for conferences; and/or I have developed and written routine office procedures; and/or I have processed and forwarded correspondence for others to proofread/edit. I have reviewed sensitive correspondence for conformance with regulations, grammar and format, returning it to the originator for corrections; and/or I have prepared a reference guide/handbook/instructional booklet to be used by staff; and/or I have compiled, designed and prepared all handouts and informational material to be used at a conference; and/or I have prepared minutes in final format for executive level meetings. I have reviewed non-sensitive correspondence prepared by others for conformance to regulations, grammar and format; and/or I have established format for reports and other documents used by the organization; and/or I have prepared agenda/program for conference as discussed in planning meetings; and/or I have assisted a staff member in gathering information and preparing a congressional response; and/or I have independently prepared recurring reports as requested by supervisor; and/or I have prepared general replies to inquiries for higher level signature. None of the above. 5 The Administrative Support Coordinator handles verbal inquiries ranging from staff at the DSCC, to officials such as Wardens, Regional Directors other federal, state and local, officials/staff, and the public. He/she directs calls, provides assistance and answers questions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently answered questions and completed business with outside entities involving both established and unwritten policy; and/or I have responded to procedural inquiries received from others outside the agency; and/or I have facilitated a training session of unit procedures to outside agencies; and/or I have presented working papers to the Section Chief; and/or I have briefed management and/or executive staff on changes or revisions to office protocols and procedures. I have participated in a division/unit/office retreat; and/or I have tracked the progress of various projects by discussing with appropriate staff; and/or I have presented information regarding filing procedures to co-workers. I have explained basic policies and procedures; and/or I have provided interpretations of policies or procedures to staff within the division; and/or I have discussed new administrative procedures to be used within the office during a departmental meeting; and/or I have assisted in presenting a training session to co-workers. None of the above. 6 The Administrative Support Coordinator is responsible for planning and organizing work under general supervision. He/she must complete assigned tasks according to priorities established by the supervisor and must efficiently use the time and resources available to them. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the preparation of schedule changes due to staff shortages; and/or I have ensured office supplies were maintained and placed order before depleted; and/or I have adjusted priorities to complete a last-minute assignment; and/or I have requested assistance/guidance with work/project, if necessary, prior to due date. I have maintained electronic calendar of all job assignments and due dates, completing prior to or before due dates; and/or I have maintained detailed files in an orderly manner by a standard method of filing (i.e., alphabetically, numerically, by project code or accounting code); and/or I have recognized the order of events with data/projects and ensured all processes were completed prior to beginning the next process/step; and/or I have recommended and/or assigned staff member to address inquiries; and/or I have independently addressed matters replying to mail not requiring supervisor’s signature. I have completed tasks as assigned within the prescribed time period; and/or I have recognized often, short time frames and requested assistance/guidance prior to the due date; and/or I have made personal “task/checklists” for various projects in order to remember specific information that must be completed. None of the above. 7 The Administrative Support Coordinator coordinates the workflow of the office by assuring day to day operations and non-routine activities are performed in a timely manner as well as devise new methods/procedures that will enhance the smooth operation of the office. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have trained fellow employees and subordinates on routine office procedures/methods; and/or I have made changes where necessary for the accomplishment of day-to-day work; and/or I have scheduled staff for training; and/or I have provided assistance to individual staff members/supervisor in completing projects. I have prioritized tasks to ensure deadlines were met; and/or I have monitored and kept the supervisor abreast of the cost center budget; and/or I have coordinated a conference to include tasks such as researching various sites for selection, making travel and hotel arrangements for participants, coordinating training for participants, and preparing conference material/information, etc.; and/or I have coordinated work with other subdivisions for special projects; and/or I have established a new filing system or other data collection system; and/or I have evaluated software/hardware and made a recommendation for selection. I have monitored, adjusted and distributed clerical/administrative workflow to ensure deadlines are met; and/or I have reviewed work of lower level clerical staff and provided instructions to improve their skill; and/or I have researched various software/hardware for the office and made a selection which was approved by supervisor; and/or I have read and interpreted material to make decisions as to proper handling; and/or I have developed a database that tracked staff to ensure all time lines and due dates were met. None of the above. 8 The Administrative Support Coordinator must possess a working knowledge of various computer systems including GroupWise, Word, Excel, Access, SGRAC databases, to be able to run reports from various computer systems, analyze the data and, provide information for interpretations. He/she must be proficient in using numerous computer programs to manipulate and organize data into reports or logs to be used within the organization. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have entered and retrieved data using Access, Excel or similar software; and/or I have created and utilized documents and forms using word processing programs; and/or I have retrieved/entered information from a specific program; and/or I have researched and retrieved information from Sallyport/internet. I have entered and retrieved information pertaining to stock inventories; and/or I have installed software on a computer; and/or I have merged files; and/or I have created charts and graphs; and/or I have created tables using a computer program. I have developed and/or assisted with development of highly detailed and technical presentations for superiors, using a variety of software, in order for superiors to make presentations for meetings, conferences, Executive Staff, task/work groups etc.; and/or I have used software programs to manage large amounts of information; and/or I have generated electronic tables and reports to track data from a project; and/or I have applied set parameters of Access, Excel or other programs by entering data and running reports; and/or I have accessed the internet to research federal guidelines or related information. None of the above. 9 The Administrative Support Coordinator reads a variety of documents, such as regulation, procedural guides, policies, style manuals and correspondence, in order to maintain files, review outgoing material, and compile background information. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have controlled the flow of incoming correspondence by determining what should be forwarded to staff and what will be handled personally; and/or I have trained lower level clerical staff and reviewed lower level clerical staff regarding proper format, grammar and policy compliance; and/or I have evaluated Administrative Remedy submissions to determine if the appeal is an emergency. I have reviewed documents for conformance with regulations, grammar and format and returned to originator with corrections; and/or I have collected required data according to guidelines or procedures to be forwarded for action; and/or I have provided information on specific subjects related to the mission of the office to interested parties upon request. I have reviewed grammar and format of documents returned to originator with corrections; and/or I have assisted with the collection of data according to guidelines or procedures; and/or I have reviewed Time and Attendance records for compliance with policy. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 I understand and accept that this position WILL NOT be covered by law enforcement retirement. If law enforcement coverage is lost by transferring to this position, I must return to an institution position to regain law enforcement coverage. Answer to this question is required 1) Yes, I understand and accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2) No, I do not accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position.) The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 6 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).