Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent in responsibility to the federal GS-11 level, producing three-dimensional graphics, using computer-aided design software, for an employer. Answer to this question is required True False 2 I am able to climb a ladder without assistance. Answer to this question is required True False 3 I can lift and carry 15 lbs without assistance. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Do you have experience designing exhibition graphics for a site belonging to a museum or other cultural institution environment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have you worked with digital workflows for text and images? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 I am proficient in creating SketchUp models for installing graphics in exhibition spaces? Answer to this question is required True False 7 I have ______________, for my employer. Answer to this question is required organized and maintained data files prepared mockups for approval troubleshooted ideas related to installation applied photographs and/or photomural mounting adhered print to various surfaces not completed these responsibilities 8 I am proficient in Adobe Photoshop. Answer to this question is required True False 9 I am proficient in Adobe Illustrator. Answer to this question is required True False 10 I am proficient in Adobe InDesign. Answer to this question is required True False 11 I have experience using Mac OS &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Have you created a 3-D model of a space that will display art and interpretative material? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following preparation and fabrication tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Translated design concepts into technical drawings for graphics, signage, and exhibits Followed architectural drawings in creating exhibition graphics Printed on large format or other specialized printers Mounted graphics to various substrates Manipulated digital imagery in Photoshop for high res graphic output Other tasks not described here None of these 14 I have experience using a large-format printer/plotter. Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Indicate which statement is accurate. If more than one is accurate, mark the one closest to the top of the list which is still accurate. Answer to this question is required I have earned a degree from an accredited university in Graphic Design, Illustration, Industrial Design or Exhibition Design. I have advanced training from a vocational school, technical institute or art institute above the high school level, in graphic design. I have other education or training not described above. None of these accurately describes my background. 16 Do you have project management experience as a lead graphic designer? &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Working in the graphic design department you will have a number of responsibilities to include multiple projects, project and file management. Indicate the tasks below that you have completed in the last three (3) years: Answer to this question is required I have created a graphics budget for an exhibition I have researched and obtained estimates for production materials for banners, wall graphics, and signage I have experience working in project management software (Wrike, Trello, or Asana) I have experience working with a team to create cohesive graphics between 3-D and 2-D designs I am able to work on multiple projects and meet their respective deadlines. I have experience presenting my design concepts to a wide range of stakeholders Other tasks not described here None of these View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.