Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. &nbsp; Undergraduate and Graduate Education --&nbsp;Must have included a total of 15 semester hours in an appropriate scientific, technical, or social science field(s), and at least one course above the introductory level in the field(s) covered by the position. For technical manuals and specifications writers or editors, the equivalent of 15 semester hours may have been gained through vocational or educational training above the high school level at a public, private, or Armed Forces school. OR B. &nbsp;E xperience --Experience that required substantial subject-matter or technical knowledge of the field. This experience must have demonstrated the ability to acquire and present technical information through independent reading, interviews with subject-matter specialists, observation of tests and experiments, interpretation of blueprints or diagrams, or other appropriate methods. Such experience may have been acquired as a writer or editor of technical reports, articles, manuals, or specifications. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: &nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Technical Writer-Editor use a high-level of expertise to oversee the document preparation process to produce written products for dissemination. He/she writes and/or edits and monitors editing and preparation of documents by National Institute of Corrections contractors. The documents provide information on National Institute of Corrections&rsquo; programs, policies, functions, and research. The written products are tailored for specific audiences with differing levels of interest and understanding of the subject matter. The Technical Writer-Editor also serves as a technical resource and provides professional knowledge of National Institute of Corrections&rsquo; procedures, guidelines, and standards. He/she must possess the writing and editing skills to produce public affairs products consistent with the policies and mission of National Institute of Corrections and the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared technical materials for staff within the division or department; and/or I have prepared briefing updates/reports for regional/field personnel; and/or I have prepared written materials for management review; and/or I have written and edited materials for use within the organization, which may include materials for the internet; and/or I have reviewed materials prepared by others for grammar, syntax, consistency, and effectiveness; and/or I have written highly technical status reports. I have prepared written recommendations to updated current procedures; and/or I have prepared budget summaries; and/or I have drafted/provided titles for graphs, tables or charts used in the presentation of study results. I have written and edited lengthy documents of a complex nature for acceptance by high-level executives within the organization and for distribution nationally; and/or I have developed or updated policies that significantly improved departmental operations; and/or I have written original material regarding the organization’s policies, procedures or Congressional reports which had a significant impact on the organization or its stakeholders; and/or I have demonstrated professional knowledge of publishing methods and processes, copyright issues, and related matters. None of the above. 4 The Technical Writer-Editor must have a comprehensive and operational knowledge of the organization&rsquo;s document preparation and dissemination policies and procedures to assist in the development, drafting, editing, and production of written materials for dissemination. The document will appropriately present information, including material that is sensitive or controversial, to a variety of audiences. The Technical Writer-Editor must have the ability to keep many different projects in different stages of development, keeping them on time and within budget, and manage multiple projects simultaneously. Essential to his/her position is the need to establish procedures, standards and guidelines for others, ensuring effective implementation and procedural safeguards.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have defined the scope of a product for national dissemination to include cover composition, interior layout, appropriate graphics to convey information and best strategy to relay the information (i.e., hard copy publication and/or electronic document); and/or I have prepared an assessment of draft documents to determine the level of editorial work that needed to be done; and/or I have worked with authors and other stakeholders to ensure open communication between all parties and to resolve any issues; and/or I have prepared budget estimates outlining editing, graphic design, and web and multimedia costs. I have performed an initial assessment of the level of editing that would be required to send a document forward to be reviewed by a Team Leader for confirmation; and/or I have created and maintained files/database to track documents in the publications queue; and/or I have searched the internet for appropriate photographs to be used in final documents. I have participated in kickoff meetings where scope of final product was discussed; and/or I have reviewed document drafts for completeness and logic of information; and/or I have reviewed document drafts to make sure charts, graphs, etc., were in sequential order. None of the above. 5 The Technical Writer-Editor must have a comprehensive and operational knowledge of the policies, procedures, and needed capacities for the preparation and dissemination of written documents both as printed material and via electronic distribution. These include preparing documents to be 508 compliant and copyright provisions for fair use and use by permission in printed and electronic media. He/she must use initiative, imagination, ingenuity, and sound professional judgement in developing dissemination strategies for written materials that will most efficiently reach multiple audiences and facilitate effective distribution of information to national audiences in multiple forms.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have ascertained a publication’s impact on departmental/positional operations, making recommendations, as necessary, to management officials; and/or I have created and maintained files/database in order to evaluate projects, ascertain trends and create table, or other graphic representation to show results; and/or I have analyzed and applied research information; and/or I have reviewed complex information for completeness and consistency (including graphic representations) throughout the report and made changes, where necessary. I have reviewed reports internal to the organization to ascertain completeness and appropriateness of information; and/or I have informed management on potential controversial issues or issues needing attention; and/or I have created agency reports using supplied data and information. I have integrated new information into a variety of formats (i.e., tables, graphs, databases, and spreadsheets) suitable for new media and accessible to specialized audiences; and/or I have conducted research analysis which included analyzing trends in corrections or other fields; and/or I have developed approach for explaining new policies and programs or for interpreting/explaining current programs; and/or I have researched professional journal articles, competitor publications, history of the agency and organization’s publications for inclusion, consistency and verification of current findings; and/or I have developed new sources of information and alternatives to current dissemination practices; and/or I have developed new policies/methods/procedures, which had a significant impact on overall operations. None of the above. 6 The Technical Writer-Editor works closely with writers, editors, printers, and/or designers to resolve problems, analyze alternatives, negotiate differences, and make improvements. He/she must be able to establish and maintain a rapport with Executive Staff and an open dialogue with numerous persons associated with National Institute of Corrections (i.e., Federal partners, contractors, authors, awardees, and National Institute of Corrections staff).&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have interacted often and conveyed pertinent information to various individuals (i.e., Executive Staff, program managers, awardees, contractors, Federal and state partners, and contractors and vendors); and/or I have communicated expectations and requirements on organizational policies and procedures; and/or I have resolved conflicts on sensitive issues (i.e., resolved conflicting priorities among stakeholders) to achieve program goals; and/or I have used expertise to provide consultation and assistance on related publications or other issues; and/or I have persuaded key stakeholders to accept changes in completed products in which they were heavily invested; and/or I have clarified organization’s policies and procedures. I have participated in a workgroup charged with analyzing resources and identifying reallocation needs; and/or I have actively participated in division meetings; and/or I have participated in activities which fostered good external relations with the public such as coordinating partnership/acting as liaison with key stakeholders; and/or I have participated on local workgroup for strategic planning or other local agency workgroups or committees. I have scheduled and maintained publications deadlines; and/or I have met with group to discuss department changes; and/or I have assisted staff in requesting information from other departments; and/or I have worked with peers/co-workers in order to accomplish program objectives. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).