Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to supervise and lead a diverse workforce.** Supervised a diverse workforce. Demonstrated proficiency in the following competencies: 1 Plan or adjust work by identifying requirements, staff, time &amp; resources to accomplish goals; 2 Solve problems by anticipating &amp; analyzing information to reach conclusions; 3 Enforced performance standards by communicating expectations, monitoring productivity &amp; holding staff accountable; 4 Ensured quality control by monitoring integrity of work performed; 5 Exhibited fair treatment of others by being aware of, responding to, and considering the needs and capabilities of staff &amp; handling issues with tact; 6 Demonstrated respect for differing opinions by exercising objectivity &amp; considering others ideas; 7 Implement improvement of current processes &amp; work quality through innovation &amp; continuous development; 8 Motivated &amp; provided direction with constructive feedback &amp;coaching; and 9 Create a work environment that foster creativity &amp; integrity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing ALL of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing EIGHT (8) of the above responsibilities. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR, performing SEVEN (7) of the above responsibilities. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others.** The ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others. Explained procedures and other information in a clear and concise manner and developed and maintained relationships with a variety of stakeholders. (e.g. co-workers, subordinates, supervisors/managers, vendors, clients, customers) to accomplish the work. Answer to this question is required Routinely collaborated with persons inside and outside a library or other organization to gather and communicate information in order to effectively complete work and resolve complex and/or controversial issues. For example, effectively represented organization in committees and task forces addressing issues/ problems where the members have conflicting objectives and worked with individuals to resolve issues/problems where guidelines and procedures are not clearly applicable. Collaborated with persons inside and outside a library or other organization to gather and communicate information in order to effectively complete work and resolve issues. For example, regularly worked with the public or personnel in other agencies and/or libraries to explain procedures and resolve issues related to missing information or materials when guidelines and procedures were applicable. Collaborated with persons inside a library or other organization to gather and communicate information in order to effectively complete work and resolve routine issues. For example, communicated with other sections or units to locate records or communicate workflow status. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to search and analyze copyright files and databases using knowledge of the registration procedures.** Searched and analyzed copyright files and databases, using knowledge of the registration procedures to respond to requests and inquiries, locate materials and manage incomplete and/or damaged filings. Answer to this question is required Searched copyright files and databases to assist others and to respond to requests of a difficult/complex nature which often involve fragmentary information, incomplete and/or damaged filings. Routinely found missing elements in claims that have become detached. Examined and analyzed reference and file materials and information to determine their applicability to specific requests. Independently completed written reports based on research findings and requested material. Searched copyright files and databases to respond to requests which often involve fragmentary information, incomplete and/or damaged filings. Examined and analyzed reference and file materials and information to determine their applicability to specific requests. Requested assistance for only unusual or highly complex searches. Completed written reports based on research findings and requested material. Searched copyright files and databases following standard operating procedures to respond to requests which often involve fragmentary information, incomplete and/or damaged filings. Examined and analyzed reference and file materials to determine their applicability to specific requests. Requested assistance for unusual and complex searches. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing. Communicated in writing to prepare correspondence explaining procedures or issues in a clear and concise manner. Produced written products related to the work area of the position and the supervisory responsibilities performed, such as: 1) policies and procedures, 2) instructional materials, 3) performance appraisals, 4) counseling and disciplinary documentation, 5) formal and informal correspondence, and 6) reports or input for section reports (status and annual). Answer to this question is required As the primary author prepared written documents of a complex or sensitive nature including AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above. As the primary author, prepared written documents of a complex or sensitive nature including FOUR (4) of the above. As the primary author, prepared written documents of a complex or sensitive nature including THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to organize, plan, direct, and review the work of staff. Led team members or subordinates in accomplishing work and/or projects of a time sensitive or critical nature by performing the following: 1) planning work for team or subordinates; 2) setting short-term work priorities; 3) assigning work based on employee priorities and capabilities; 4) identifying training and developmental needs of the team; 5) interviewing candidates for positions in the organizational unit; 6) hearing complaints from employees and recommending resolution; and 7) relaying organizational policies to the staff. Answer to this question is required Performed AT LEAST SIX (6) of the responsibilities listed above. Performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the responsibilities listed above. Performed basic lead responsibilities, such as conveying instructions received from supervisors to members of the team and coordinating work to be completed. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).