Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 1 Choose the statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 5 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have one full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university meets the requirements for positions at GS-7. I meet the superior academic achievement provision described in the vacancy announcement. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with water quality testing and maintenance of life support systems for aquatic animals? Answer to this question is required I have experience in organizing and conducting water quality tests as needed for aquatic animals and have maintained or adjusted life support systems. I have experience in organizing and conducting water quality tests for aquatic animals. I have experience in conducting water quality tests in other situations. None of the above 3 Which of the following best describes your experience operating and maintaining complex closed and open loop life support systems (LSS) for aquatic exhibits, including mechanical filtration, biological filtration, circulation, temperature control, aeration, and disinfection processes? Answer to this question is required I have independently operated and maintained complex closed and open loop LSS, optimizing mechanical and biological filtration, circulation, temperature control, aeration, and disinfection to sustain stable conditions; I routinely interpret data and make operational adjustments without supervision. I have operated and maintained LSS that include the functions listed above; I interpret routine data and make standard adjustments with limited supervision, escalating unusual conditions as needed. I have performed specific LSS tasks under established procedures and regular supervision. I have assisted with LSS operations or maintenance tasks and recorded readings but have not been responsible for system adjustments or overall stability. None of the above. 4 Which of the following describes your experience conducting acquisition data entry tasks for a collections inventory? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I do not have experience entering acquisition data for a collections inventory in collections information system. I have searched collections information system for acquisition records that correspond with inventoried objects. I have updated or created records in the collections information system acquisition activity to confirm that legal title information is recorded accurately. I have created collections information system actions forms to record legal title issues for resolution. I have handled archival records following appropriate preservation practices. 5 Which of the following tasks have you experience performing, as a regular part of your duties, managing a Computerized Maintenance Management System or other automated database systems? Answer to this question is required Managing customer service request Responding to and resolving customer services request/complaints Working with facilities management policies, programs, and procedures to perform operations and maintenance work activities None of the above 6 Do you have experience scheduling and tracking maintenance requests? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following best describes your experience developing or reviewing corrective action plans for resolving internal control deficiencies or providing support to management in implementing these actions? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience related to resolving internal control deficiencies. I have education and/or training in resolving internal control deficiencies, but have not applied it to a job. I have provided support to management in the development or review of corrective action plans for resolving internal control deficiencies. I develop or review corrective action plans to resolve internal control deficiencies under the close supervision of a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I independently develop or review corrective action plans to resolve internal control deficiencies as a regular part of may job without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee. I independently develop or review corrective action plans to resolve internal control deficiencies and have trained others in performing this duty or have been consulted by others for expert assistance in performing this duty. 8 Do you have experience following-up and reporting on maintenance and repair work service request? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.