Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 05 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have an active forklift operator certification? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list the organization providing the certification(s) and date(s) completed. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 2 Do you&nbsp;possess a valid and unexpired state motor vehicle driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the statements that describes your experience operating forklifts. Answer to this question is required Maneuvered forklifts in small areas such as in warehouses and between outside buildings. Transported vehicles, lifting, lowering and tilting forks in an appropriate safe manner Applied leverage when moving and handling heavy equipment and furnishings. Loaded and unloaded, stacked and unstacked warehouses Moved crates, boxes, packages, pallets, or loose items. None of the above 4 Select the actions you have performed when receiving shipments. Answer to this question is required Visually inspected items for damage Counted items to verify quantity Checked shipping label for accurate delivery location Recorded transactions (e.g., receipt date, time) Puts bar codes, tags, and/or identification marks on items None of the above 5 Do you have experience transporting goods, materials and/or supplies throughout the AOC? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the specialty materials/items you have moved without causing damage. Answer to this question is required Antiques/historical artifacts (e.g., furniture, paintings) Construction material (e.g., tools, parts) Hazardous material (e.g., asbestos, mercury) High-valued items (e.g., precision instruments) None of the above 7 Which statement best describes your highes level of experience setting up for events? Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience related to storing, delivering, and setting up furniture and equipment for events. I have performed storage, delivery, and set up activities for furniture and equipment as an apprentice or under supervision. I have independently stored, delivered and set up furniture and equipment. I have led or instructed others on proper techniques to store, deliver, and set up furniture and equipment. 8 Do you have experience supervising and evaluating the work of employees who move materials with forklifts or motorized equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience working with customers while moving materials or cleaning areas. Answer to this question is required I have resolved misunderstandings or disagreements about moving or cleaning procedures. I have explained moving or cleaning procedures. I have directed customers with questions to a senior employee. None of the above. 10 Which industrial trucks/equipment have you used? Answer to this question is required Forklifts Pallet jacks Hand trucks Flatbed trucks Table trucks Chair dollies None of the above 11 Which information have you read and applied on the job? Answer to this question is required Safety policies regarding personal protective equipment (e.g., masks, gloves) Equipment operation instructions Cleaning chemical application instructions Lifting procedures Cleaning procedures Safety Data Sheets None of the above 12 Which Laborer tasks have you performed on the job? Answer to this question is required Loaded and unloaded hand trucks Performed maintenance on equipment Set up and arranged committee/conference rooms Assisted trade craftsmen with construction projects Removed ice and snow from building steps, sidewalks, and entrances Moved furniture and equipment Delivered collection containers Sorted a variety of recycled materials such as books, copper, brass, recycled newspapers, white and colored papers, bottles, or cans None of the above 13 Which administrative tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Submit time and attendance. Reply to emails. Complete computer based training. Assist co-workers with computer usage. Answer phones and take messages. Fulfill standard work orders. None of the above. 14 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience supervising laborers,&nbsp; custodians, motor vehicle operators, floor maintenance technicians and materials handlers (forklift operators). Answer to this question is required I do not have training or experience supervising the type of employees. I completed training or education related to supervisory skills, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have led/directed the staff described in the question. I have supervised this type of employee (i.e., delegated work, and work schedules, managed performances). 15 Which of the following tasks have you performed using a computer? Answer to this question is required Summarized work performances. Completed time and attendance. Developed work plans. Researched equipment. Created/updated work orders. Ordered supplies. Documented resolution of client concerns. None of the above. 16 Do you have experience adjusting your work schedule/workload to accommodate last-minute priority requests for service? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Which tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Count items correctly for issues and receiving. Track accurate inventory of supplies, materials or equipment. Upload equipment. Assemble items delivered in pieces. Labor tasks. None of the above. 18 Do you have experience lifting, carrying, and/or moving objects weighing up to 50 lbs either by yourself or with a team? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Select the personal protective equipment (PPE) you have experience using. Answer to this question is required Cold weather gear Hard hats Goggles Gloves Safety shoes None of the above 20 Have you trained others on the proper procedures for moving materials with forklifts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 21 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.