Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Department of Commerce Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 0 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Privacy Act Statement Authority:&nbsp; 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(a), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b)(4), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(e)(1) and (e)(3), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b) and (c) Purpose:&nbsp; The National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) hosts the Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) which provides an opportunity for the NIST laboratories to encourage outstanding undergraduate students to pursue careers in science and technology. The Summer High School Intern Program (SHIP) is a NIST-wide summer intern program for students who will have finished their junior or senior year of high school by the start of the program and are interested in scientific research only. The Summer Institute for Middle School Science Teachers is a two-week workshop for middle school science teachers featuring hands-on activities, lectures, tours, and visits with NIST scientists and engineers in their laboratories.&nbsp;This information collection will serve as the application and submission process for these NIST Academic Programs. Routine Uses: &nbsp; NIST will use the information collected to perform the requisite reviews of the applications to determine eligibility, and to meet programmatic requirements. Disclosure of this information is also subject to all the published routine uses as identified in the Privacy Act System of Records Notices:&nbsp; NIST-1: NIST Associates.&nbsp; Disclosure: &nbsp; Furnishing this information is voluntary. When you submit the form, you are indicating your voluntary consent for NIST to use of the information you submit for the purpose stated. 1 Please provide your full middle name. Please enter NMN if you do not have one. Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 What is the name of your college/university? Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Where is your college or university located (city,state)? Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 What is your current class standing by year? For example, a first year student is defined as a first-year, a second year student as a sophomore, a third year student as a junior, and 4 (or more) years as a senior. Answer to this question is required First-year Sophomore Junior Senior 5 What is your major? Answer to this question is required Biochemistry Biology Biophysics Chemistry Computer Science Engineering 5.1 From the options listed, which field of engineering closely relates to your major? Aerospace Engineering Bioengineering/Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Environmental Engineering Fire Protection Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Engineering Nuclear Engineering Geology Materials Science Mathematics Physics Statistics Other 5.1 Please provide your major. Maximum length of 250 characters. 6 Do you have a second major? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 What is your second major? Biochemistry Biology Biophysics Chemistry Computer Science Engineering Geology Materials Science Mathematics Physics Statistics Other 6.2 If you selected Other please provide your second major. If you did not select Other please enter NA. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 Do you have a minor? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 What is your minor? Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 What is your current cumulative G.P.A. (on a 4.0 scale)? Note: If your school does not use the conventional grading system, please indicate the equivalent. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 What is your current major G.P.A. (on a 4.0 scale)? Note: If your school does not use the conventional grading system, please indicate the equivalent. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 The following NIST operating units participate in the SURF program: Communications Technology Laboratory (CTL), Information Technology Laboratory (ITL), Material Measurement Laboratory (MML), and Physical Measurement Laboratory (PML). All applicants must identify and select their top four research opportunities of interest in order of preference from two different divisions from the participating operating units. A list of current research opportunities can be found at https://www.nist.gov/surf/surf-boulder/research-opportunities. I acknowledge the research opportunity choices are made at the sole discretion of the applicant &nbsp; and cannot be changed after the closing date of the announcement . Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 11 Indicate your first choice research opportunity preference from the projects described at https://www.nist.gov/surf/surf-boulder/research-opportunities. For example, 647-3 Development of a Forensic Technique to Detect Arson. Maximum length of 150 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Indicate your second choice research opportunity preference from the projects described at https://www.nist.gov/surf/surf-boulder/research-opportunities. For example, 647-3 Development of a Forensic Technique to Detect Arson. Maximum length of 150 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Indicate your third choice research opportunity preference from the projects described at https://www.nist.gov/surf/surf-boulder/research-opportunities. For example, 647-3 Development of a Forensic Technique to Detect Arson. Maximum length of 150 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 Indicate your fourth choice research opportunity preference from the projects described at https://www.nist.gov/surf/surf-boulder/research-opportunities. For example, 647-3 Development of a Forensic Technique to Detect Arson. Maximum length of 150 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Indicate your availability to participate in the program from the provided options. Your choice indicates you will be available without interruptions. Participants are NOT eligible for vacation or paid time off. Answer to this question is required 11- week program: May 27 - Aug 7, 2026 9-week program: June 8 – Aug 7, 2026 Offset 11 week program: June 8 - Aug 21, 2026 The previous options do not reflect my availability. 16 If you select option #4, "the previous options do not reflect my availability", please provide more information about your availability below. If you did not select this option please enter NA. Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 Do you have any previous paid or volunteer experience with NIST? Answer to this question is required Yes 17.1 Indicate your previous experience with NIST. Check all that apply. Previous experience with NIST does NOT guarantee selection for a future SURF program. Invitations to participate in the upcoming NIST SURF program stem from this year's application. SHIP SURF PREP Other paid experience Other volunteer experience 17.2 List the mentor/supervisor's name(s), laboratory affiliation, and the most recent year of experience. For example, Dr. Jane Smith, CTL, 2017. Maximum length of 300 characters. 17.3 If you are invited to participate in SURF, would you prefer to work with your previous mentor/supervisor? Yes No No Preference No 18 Did you apply to last year's SURF Program? Answer to this question is required Yes 18.1 Did you receive an offer to participate in the last year's SURF program? Yes No No 19 Do you have skills/experience acquired through coursework or on-the-job training with advanced laboratory techniques or equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 19.1 Briefly provide information about your skills/experience with advanced laboratory techniques or equipment. Please include specific details in your resume. Maximum length of 300 characters. No 20 Do you have experience with the following specialized software? Answer to this question is required LabView Mathematica Matlab PyTorch TensorFlow Other None of the above 21 List other specialized software with which you have experience. Maximum length of 300 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 Do you have experience with the following computer languages? Answer to this question is required C C++ Java Python R Other None 23 Indicate your experience in other computer languages. Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 24 List any other special skills not previously mentioned (e.g., hands-on skills with tools, special projects, tutoring experience, extracurricular activities, data analytics, leadership positions). Maximum length of 600 characters. Answer to this question is required 25 Would you like to address any extenuating circumstances that are not mentioned elsewhere in your application or supporting documents? Answer to this question is required Yes 25.1 Address extenuating circumstances in the space provided. Maximum length of 600 characters. No 26 Are you also applying to an announcement(s) on behalf of the NIST SURF Program in other location(s)? The 2026 SURF program will host participants in Gaithersburg, MD, and Boulder, CO. Each location has its own vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes 26.1 Which NIST SURF location is your first choice? Gaithersburg, MD Boulder, CO No 27 I understand that this application applies only to the NIST SURF Boulder vacancy announcement, and is not an application for the SURF program in other locations. Answer to this question is required Yes No 28 I understand that I may need to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) if I work&nbsp; on a project related to the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) and Science Act. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 29 If I accept an offer to participate in the NIST SURF program, I acknowledge my commitment to participate. I further acknowledge that if I withdraw after committing to the program, I jeopardize consideration for future SURF fellowships. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 30 I understand a complete application submission includes two (2) letters of recommendation submitted by the recommendation due date (NLT than 3 days after the closing of the vacancy). Furthermore, I acknowledge I am responsible for notifying references through the online application system to submit letters on my behalf. Note: NIST will not accept hard copy letters or letters sent as e-mail attachments. The system will notify your recommenders of the request, provide instructions for submission and send a reminder 2 days prior to the deadline. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 31 I understand that I must upload an acceptable form of proof of my U.S. citizenship or permanent residency. &nbsp;Acceptable forms of proof of U.S. Citizenship include a Certified Birth Certificate, U.S. Passport, U.S. Passport Card, Naturalization Certificate, Certificate of Citizenship, Consular Report of Birth (of U.S. citizen) Abroad, or Certification of Birth. Acceptable form of proof of U.S. permanent residency is an unexpired green card. I understand that driver&rsquo;s licenses and social security cards are NOT acceptable forms of proof of U.S. citizenship or permanent residency. Answer to this question is required Yes No 32 I confirm that I have checked the list of required documents. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 33 I confirm that the information provided in this application and supporting documents are true, complete, and accurate. If false information is in my application, consideration for a fellowship will be removed. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 34 How did you hear about the SURF program? Answer to this question is required Received an email from a school department Saw a SURF flyer, brochure or advertisement at my school College professor or advisor Current NIST employee SURF alumni Family member or friend Online search (general) Career fair or professional conference Other 35 If you selected &ldquo;Other&rdquo; please enter the way you heard about the SURF Program. Please enter NA if you did not select &ldquo;Other". Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Agency Financial Report Comment Policy Commerce Archive EEO Policy FOIA GobiernoUSA.gov Improper Payments Information Quality Inspector General No Fear Act PLAIN Language Privacy Policy USA.gov Whistleblower Protection Whitehouse.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).