Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 5 Which of the following best describes your experience regarding acquisitions methods? Answer to this question is required I have work experience in a wide range of acquisition methods, principles and practices as a regular part of my job. I have performed this work with little oversight often using independent judgment. I have work experience in some areas of acquisition as a regular part of my job. I have work experience in some areas of acquisition with close supervision. I do not have work experience in this area. 6 Have you received formal training in the fundamentals of acquisition management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which of the following best describes your experience managing and executing arrangements for proposed acquisition including liaising with curators, donors, vendors, and colleagues across organizational departments to ensure timely and safe arrival of potential gifts and purchases? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing and executing arrangements for proposed acquisition including liaising with curators, donors, vendors, and colleagues across organizational departments to ensure timely and safe arrival of potential gifts and purchases. I have experience managing and executing arrangements for proposed acquisition including liaising with curators, donors, vendors, and colleagues across organizational departments. I have experience managing and executing arrangements for proposed acquisition including liaising with curators, donors, and vendors. I have experience managing and executing arrangements for proposed acquisition including liaising with curators and donors. I have experience managing and executing arrangements for proposed acquisition. I do not have related experience. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience initiating review of proposed acquisitions by conservators, head curators, and directors? Answer to this question is required I have experience initiating review of proposed acquisitions by conservators, head curators, and directors. I have experience initiating review of proposed acquisitions by conservators and head curators. I have experience initiating review of proposed acquisitions by conservators. I have experience initiating review of proposed acquisitions. I do not have relate experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience managing the acquisitions budget of endowments, spending down funds, and other sources of funding? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing the acquisitions budget of endowments, spending down funds, and other sources of funding. I have experience managing the acquisitions budget of endowments and spending down funds. I have experience managing the acquisitions budget of endowments. I have experience managing acquisitions budgets. I do not have related experience. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions including but not limited to artists, studios, galleries, dealers, and private collectors? Answer to this question is required I have experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions including but not limited to artists, studios, galleries, dealers, and private collectors. I have experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions including but not limited to artists, studios, galleries, and dealers. I have experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions including but not limited to artists, studios, and galleries. I have experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions including but not limited to artists, and studios. I have experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions including but not limited to artists. I have experience managing the procurement process with vendors for incoming acquisitions. I do not have related experience. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections loans? Answer to this question is required I have expert experience with museum collections management functions, standards and practices, particularly those relating to collections loans. I have moderate experience with museum collections management functions, standards and practices, particularly those relating to collections loans. I have minimal experience with museum collections management functions, standards and practices, particularly those relating to collections loans. I have no experience with museum collections management functions, standards and practices including those relating to collections loans. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience with collections management functions, standards and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves. I have moderate experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves. I have minimal experience with collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections moves. I have education or training in collections management functions, standards, and practices, but have not used them on the job. I do not have experience or education in collections management functions, standards, and practices. 13 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions?&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have expert knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have moderate knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have minimal knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, particularly those relating to collections transactions. I have no knowledge of collections management functions, standards, and practices, including those relating to collections transactions. I have no experience working with collections or interacting with researchers or volunteers. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience working with a collections management policy? Answer to this question is required I have experience following and interpreting a collections management policy for a museum and/or gallery. I have had training in collections management policy but have not utilized systems. I have completed 4 years of academic studies in studio art, art history, humanities, or museum studies that included studies or a specialization in collections management. I have no experience working with a collections management policy. 15 Which of the following best describes your experience being responsible for a wide variety of collections related functions that include serving as the primary curatorial representative for permanent collection installations, gallery rotations, and special projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience being responsible for a wide variety of collections related functions that include serving as the primary curatorial representative for permanent collection installations, gallery rotations, and special projects. I have experience being responsible for a wide variety of collections related functions that include serving as the primary curatorial representative for permanent collection installations, and gallery rotations. I have experience being responsible for a wide variety of collections related functions that include serving as the primary curatorial representative for permanent collection installations. I have experience being responsible for a wide variety of collections related functions that include serving as the primary curatorial representative. I have experience being responsible for a wide variety of collections related functions. I do not have related experience. 16 Which of the following best describes your experience overseeing strategy for ongoing organization and maintenance of all curatorial files and records, both paper and digital, pertaining to the permanent collection, promised gifts and bequests, deaccessions, and collector files? Answer to this question is required I have experience overseeing strategy for ongoing organization and maintenance of all curatorial files and records, both paper and digital, pertaining to the permanent collection, promised gifts and bequests, deaccessions, and collector files. I have experience overseeing strategy for ongoing organization and maintenance of all curatorial files and records, both paper and digital, pertaining to the permanent collection, promised gifts and bequests, and deaccessions. I have experience overseeing strategy for ongoing organization and maintenance of all curatorial files and records, both paper and digital, pertaining to the permanent collection, promised gifts and bequests. I have experience overseeing strategy for ongoing organization and maintenance of all curatorial files and records, both paper and digital. I have experience overseeing strategy for ongoing organization and maintenance of all curatorial files and records. I do not have related experience. 17 Do you have experience developing and maintaining checklists for special projects and temporary exhibitions? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating across departments about installation requirements, exhibition design, interpretive elements, and related programmatic elements? Answer to this question is required I have experience coordinating across departments about installation requirements, exhibition design, interpretive elements, and related programmatic elements. I have experience coordinating across departments about installation requirements, exhibition design, and interpretive elements. I have experience coordinating across departments about installation requirements, and exhibition design. I have experience coordinating across departments about installation requirements. I have experience coordinating across departments. I do not have related experience. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.