Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Toggle navigation CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 Do you have a law degree (J.D. or equivalent) and bar membership and 3 years of relevant legal experience after completion of law school? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please provide the date that you received your J.D. (or equivalent) degree.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Grade: 14 1 Do you have a law degree (J.D. or equivalent) and bar membership and 4 years of relevant legal experience after completion of law school? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Please provide the date that you received your J.D. (or equivalent) degree.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 5 In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Answer to this question is required. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details CFTC.gov About the CFTC Contact Us EEO Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).