Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience for this position includes: (1) Applying comprehensive knowledge and experience managing assets in support of architecture, engineering and/or facilities management programs for a large organization similar in scale and breadth to the Architect of the Capitol; (2) Coordinating the development and implementation of a strategic asset management program that focuses on Enterprise Asset Management Systems (EAMS) for an organization of similar size and scope; (3) Applying appropriate analytical, evaluative and measurement techniques to improve performance and ensure compliance with program policies, procedures and operations; and (4) Ability to analytically develop asset management reports; brief those results to executive leadership; and provide recommended solutions with associated action plans. 2 Do you have experience managing an Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) program in support of architecture, engineering and/or facilities management activities? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Which&nbsp;Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required Strategic planning and/or design Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) program implementation Performance analysis Cost benefit analysis Performance metrics (service level agreements, key performance indicators etc.) Lifecycle maintenance of physical assets Policy development Create technology roadmaps Gather, establish, define, and implement requirements Systems integration and testing Change management planning Close-out change requests EAM systems database management None of the above 4 Do you have experience developing and/or implementing an asset management system within an organization's IT framework? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 5 Do you&nbsp;have experience participating in strategic planning for assets owned by a Federal organization? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which&nbsp;response best describes your experience performing enterprise asset management, planning and analysis, providing guidance and making recommendations to meet organizational objectives? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have assisted a senior level employee to provide guidance on asset management programs. I have independently performed asset management planning and analysis, and made recommendations to meet organizational objectives. I have performed similar or directly related tasks which will enable me to successfully perform this task. I am an expert and regularly provide technical advice and expert guidance to senior management and other employees on asset management programs, planning and analysis and make recommendations to meet organizational objectives. 7 Do you have experience measuring results of an organization&rsquo;s asset management program? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Have you performed financial analyses and/or return on investments calculations for an organization&rsquo;s assets to determine the most appropriate investment strategy? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following systems/software have you used? Answer to this question is required Computer-Aided Facilities Management (CAFM ) software TMA Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS) software TRIRIGA Asset Management software Maximo Asset Management software Other equivalent systems or software None of the above 10 I have developed asset management policies and procedures for a large organization. Answer to this question is required True False 11 Which actions have you performed independently to solve problems in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required Identifying relevant and important information Synthesizing data from multiple sources Discerning underlying assumptions Generating solution ideas Weighing alternative options Developing recommendations Validating support for arguments and audit/evaluation findings and recommendations None of the above 12 Do you have experience advising senior management on issues related to asset management programs? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Select the documents you have written: Answer to this question is required Strategic plans Organizational policies Standard Operating Procedures Program evaluation reports Preservation policy for a state or Federal agency Physical asset analysis Cost-benefit studies Historic inventory recording heritage assets Technical and non-technical reports White papers Slide content (e.g., PowerPoint presentations) Business correspondence (e.g., letters, emails) None of the above 14 Please choose the statement that best describe your oral communication and presentation skills. Answer to this question is required I regularly communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives and priorities in oral presentations and provide guidance to various levels of personnel. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendation to managers. I represent my organization in meetings with third party individuals and/or organizations. I brief managers on organizational policy, goals and objectives. I foster cooperation and consensus among groups in achieving organizational goals. None of the above 15 Do you have experience working on an historic campus or within historic facilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Which certifications or registrations do you hold? Answer to this question is required Professional Engineering (PE) certification Certified Facilities Manager (CFM) Registered Architect (RA) certification Certified Construction Manager (CCM) Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification Certified Energy Manager (CEM) Certified Commissioning Professional (CCP) or equivalent Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) certification None of the Above 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 17.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.