Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. OR Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement. NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified. OR Special Provision for Inservice Placement: Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan.&nbsp; Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included: Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program. &nbsp; 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet at least one of the minimum qualification requirements described above No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above. NOTE:&nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp;MUST&nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Regional Health System Specialist demonstrates strong oral communication skills when engaging with professional medical and administrative personnel, including Regional Directors, Wardens, Associate Wardens, and elected officials.&nbsp; He/she effectively interacts with healthcare professionals across local, state, and federal government agencies, as well as the public sector, maintaining clear and professional dialogue.&nbsp; He/she conveys information, provides direction, and delegates responsibilities to ensure a seamless coordination of health services operations with field administrators.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided information to a task force as a resource person; and/or I have attended staff meetings for a health services department; and/or I have provided updates during a conference involving new procedures; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers during meetings on implementation of a new procedure. I have given briefings to upper management; and/or I have, as chairperson, guided a workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have presented current issues and provided resolutions during a meeting; and/or I have conducted group presentations and training; and/or I have led a task force evaluating medical care; and/or I have given presentations at Community Relations Board meetings or other related community meetings. I have briefed supervisor on field health service operations and made recommendations for improvements; and/or I have provided recommendations during a meeting; and/or I have assisted in providing updated information during a training course; and/or I have served on an institution committee addressing medical issues; and/or I have organized a Community Relations Board; and/or I have participated in a task force to resolve issues at the institution level; and/or I have participated in an after-action committee, review team, or Institution Character Profile (ICP) team that focused on various issues; and/or I have assisted with a presentation during Annual Training. None of the above. 4 The Regional Health System Specialist prepares reports, correspondence, and responses for the Regional Health Services Administrator, Bureau of Prisons executives, Department of Justice (DOJ), and other government entities. He/she also drafts communications for institutional leadership and external stakeholders, ensuring clear written communication is tailored to various audiences.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandums for internal distribution; and/or I have prepared a flyer for departmental staff advertising upcoming health care training opportunities; and/or I have assisted in documenting audit findings into an action plan for improvement; and/or I have responded to a request for informal resolution or corrective action. I have prepared comprehensive written evaluations and recommendations for supervisor; and/or I have updated Institution Supplements; and/or I have prepared written documentation in response to requests from executive staff within the Bureau of Prisons or comparable management level in the private sector; and/or I have independently prepared responses to congressional inquiries; and/or I have prepared a response to an internal audit. I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared descriptive medical log entries; and/or I have assisted with preparing a response to a congressional inquiry; and/or I have prepared a response to a Request for Administrative Remedy. None of the above. 5 The Regional Health System Specialist oversees the administrative functions of a multidisciplinary health services team.&nbsp; He/she ensures policy compliance, accreditation alignment, and best practices in institutional operations.&nbsp; He/she identifies concerns, assists in corrective actions, advises on policy revisions, and delivers briefings on Bureau trend analyses and dashboards.&nbsp; He/she requires strategic decision-making, creativity, and innovation, especially in the absence of clear guidelines. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have monitored equipment function, scheduled repairs, and maintained stock par levels; and/or I have scheduled internal and external consultant appointments and coordinated tele health program; and/or I have coordinated and monitored inmate movement through bus/airlift and special movement to medical referral centers; and/or I have provided feedback to supervisor regarding compliance with national policy and necessary modifications to local policy or procedures; and/or I have recommended the purchase of major medical equipment. I have served as an acting Assistant Health Services Administrator and/or Health Services Administrator overseeing the health services department activities; and/or I have performed duties as a cost center manager; and/or I have mentored and trained staff; and/or I have recommended cost saving initiatives that were adopted by management; and/or I have collected information and reviewed health services statistical reports; and/or I have determined funding requirements for a health care facility; and/or I have participated on internal committees which resulted in improved health care services being provided; and/or I have modified or proposed new policy statements. I have performed daily operational checks of equipment and troubleshot malfunctions; and/or I have reviewed information needed for consultant visits; and/or I have scheduled inmates for appointments; and/or I have provided escorts and operated tele-medicine equipment; and/or I have assisted with coordinating movement by locating records or medical supplies to transfer inmates; and/or I have performed updates of local policy with instruction from or review by supervisor. None of the above. 6 The Regional Health System Specialist collaborates with institution managers, community health administrators, procurement staff, consultants, and officials from governmental and private sectors to ensure effective health services programs.&nbsp; He/she integrates administrative, logistical, and technical support into healthcare programs, advancing the Bureau of Prisons' mission and improving inmate healthcare delivery. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in group activities or discussions related to patients with identified risks, high risk procedures or practices to reduce risks; and/or I have discussed test results and implication for treatment planning with physicians; and/or I have identified a situation where the level of care provided needed change and made recommendations to appropriate staff. I have provided patient teaching to inmates who are subject to special protocols to improve compliance and documented efforts; and/or I have coordinated preparation of patients having special procedures to assure timely completion and reduce missed appointments; and/or I have identified and obtained supplies or special equipment needed to implement risk mitigation protocols. I have facilitated communication with outside medical facilities to resolve healthcare issues; and/or I have coordinated meetings with leaders of community health care facilities; and/or I have facilitated intra-disciplinary health services governing body; and/or I have initiated and performed staff training in areas related to health care administration in compliance with policy. None of the above. 7 The Regional Health System Specialist establishes and manages internal review systems to ensure compliance with accreditation, regulatory, and agency standards.&nbsp; He/she evaluates health services programs, provides recommendations for improvement and promoting consistency across regional institutions and contract correctional facilities. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have administered a health care program to achieve and/or maintain accreditation; and/or I have served as Reviewer-in-Charge (RIC) of perpetual audits for the health services department; and/or I have monitored health care provided to ensure compliance with health care standards and regulations; and/or I have established and enforced regulations and policies in a medical facility; and/or I have implemented an internal audit, which ensured compliance with governing standards and regulations; and/or I have led or facilitated a review or internal/external audit, or accreditation survey. I have assisted in completing primary source verification of health care provider credentials using general knowledge of national policy requirements; and/or I have participated in a limited capacity in internal/external audits or accreditation survey; and/or I have maintained files and documents needed during audits or surveys; and/or I have utilized general knowledge of continuing medical education (CME) and verified that documented staff Continuing Professional Education training records met or exceeded requirements; and/or I have participated in Health Services Quarterly Committee meetings. I have completed primary source verification of health care provider credentials using knowledge of accreditation survey and national policy requirements; and/or I have identified documents required during reviews or surveys, (i.e., credential files, biomedical equipment maintenance reports, Safety and Data System records and fire drills); and/or I have maintained Continuing Professional Education training records for Health Services Unit staff; and/or I have participated as a team member of a perpetual audit; and/or I have audited records to ensure mandatory requirements have been met; and/or I have completed training requests for approval; and/or I have taken a leading role in emergency drills, fire drills, American Disabilities Act (ADA) modifications or safety activities. None of the above. 8 The Regional Health System Specialist manages fiscal operations for regional health services, oversees budget planning, financial analysis, and healthcare cost assessments.&nbsp; He/she evaluates financial systems, contracting, and procurement, leveraging data-driven insights to enhance both administrative and healthcare functions.&nbsp; He/she provides strategic recommendations to the Regional Health Services Administrator (RHSA) and applies strong judgment and ingenuity to develop innovative, cost-effective solutions that improve healthcare quality and efficiency. &nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have independently prepared documents for business office for goods or services; and/or I have prepared reports concerning activities, expenses, and budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs; and/or I have tracked medical expenditures to maintain a positive balance; and/or I have coordinated with vendors regarding the delivery of services or the resolution of price discrepancy as a Purchase Card Holder; and/or I have prepared annual budget reports; and/or I have authorized payments for contract facility medical bills as a Contracting Officer Representative (FAC-COR Level 1). I have processed Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR) reports for evaluating services; and/or I have, under direction of supervisor, prepared documents for business office for goods or services; and/or I have assisted others to complete a Request for Contracting Action packet; and/or I have used information from Unified Financial Management System (UFMS) to advise Cost Center Manager of on going status of Health Services Unit budget. I have identified which contracts are currently in effect for Health Services Unit, and what services are required under the Statement of Work; and/or I have developed draft documents for review and completion by supervisor using knowledge of the elements required for a Request for Contracting Action (RCA) packet; and/or I have compiled data from various sources and formats for supervisor's review; and/or I have participated in management assessments. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).