Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have a minimum of 5 years experience working as a painter-refinisher without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Have you performed journey level painting-refinishing work in a historically significant environment requiring meticulous attention to detail? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Select the response that most closely matches your highest level of job responsibility in painting. Answer to this question is required I perform independently and expertly the full range of painting duties, especially in situations requiring more than ordinary skill such as refinishing and decorative painting. Work is checked after completion on intermittent basis. I perform a wide variety of difficult painting duties within the framework of oral and written instructions and accepted trade practices, processes and procedures. The most difficult work is always checked at the completion. I perform a variety of difficult painting tasks subject to periodic inspection during work progress and checked upon completion to insure meeting trade standards. None of the above. 4 Select the elevated support products you have used, constructed, erected, and disassembled. Answer to this question is required Scaffolds (Mechanical, ground-based, rolling, stationary, ladder jack) Aerial work platforms Aluminum and wooden planks Extension ladders Swing stages Step ladders None of the above 5 Which response best describes your highest level of refinishing experience? Answer to this question is required I have not performed refinishing. I have completed training on refinishing but have not performed it at work. I have refinished a feature that was somewhat hidden from sight (e.g., baseboard in a closet). I have rebuilt the corner of a piece of furniture using wood putty. I have refinished a substantial feature or piece of furniture that was highly visible or historic. 6 Select the procedures you have used to repair minor imperfections in wood surfaces. Answer to this question is required Graining Sanding Spot Priming Surfacing Sealing Knots Filling Imperfections Feathering Imperfections by Sanding None of the above 7 What kinds of special finishing techniques have you applied? Answer to this question is required Marbling Graining Texturing Glazing Stenciling Lettering Gold Leaf None of the above 8 In which practices/industries do you have past work experience? Answer to this question is required Facility maintenance Contracting High-end custom residential painting Industrial or commercial painting Historic facilities painting None of the above 9 Select the equipment that you have used to apply coating. Answer to this question is required Brushes and rollers Conventional sprayers Airless and air-assisted sprayers High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) sprayers None of the above 10 Select the tools that you have used in painting tasks. Answer to this question is required Tape measures Scale ruler T-squares French curves Straight edges Levels Lasers Basic brushes and rollers Putty knives Spray equipment None of the above 11 What types of specialized tools have you used to complete complex painting and decorative work assignments? Answer to this question is required Pumice Rottenstone Viscosity Graining Devices None of the above 12 Select the tasks that you have performed in the theoretical, precise and artistic painting functions. Answer to this question is required Pre-surface preparation Measurement of surrounding conditions Evaluation of compressor, air cleanliness, and surfaces preparation equipment Determination of surface preparation, cleanliness, and profile Mixing and thinning of coating materials Evaluation of application equipment Inspecting coating application and cleanliness between coats Determination of wet-film and dry-film thickness Pinhole and holiday testing Evaluating adhesion/cure None of the above 13 Do you have experience in chemical stripping? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 What types of surfaces have you applied paint? Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Glass Synthetic Concrete Other surfaces None of the above 15 What types of sealers have you applied? Answer to this question is required Shellac Varnishes Latex Resin Teflon Alcohol and lacquer-based Water-borne polyurethane Primary Sealers Undercoats None of the above 16 Which response best describes your highest level of experience matching paints? Answer to this question is required I have not performed this task. I have used a computerized tint machine to tint paint. I have used a spectrophotometer to match paint. I have used newer materials to match paint when the base no longer existed, using only my vision and past experience. I have matched paint for historical surfaces or where sunlight caused fading, making multiple surfaces differ in shades of the same color, using only my vision and past experience. 17 Which tools have you used to complete (or assist others with completing) painting work? Answer to this question is required Drop cloths Tape measures Dusters Caulking guns Paint roller sleeves Paint roller extension poles Putty knives Tape machines Extension ladders Step ladders None of the above 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 18.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.