Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Environmental Protection Agency United States Environmental Protection Agency About EPA EPA Careers Toggle navigation Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 To meet the Basic Qualifications Requirements for Attorney, select the option that best describes your educational background: Answer to this question is required I have a J.D. or LL.M. degree from an accredited or pre-accredited college or university. I have apprentice experience equivalent to a J.D. or LL.M. degree as allowed per state law. I do not meet the requirements described above. 2 To meet the Basic Qualifications Requirements for Attorney, select the option that best describes your licensure: Answer to this question is required I am duly licensed and authorized to practice as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia. I do not meet the above. 3 GS-15: To meet the Additional Qualifications Requirements for Attorney, GS-15, select the option that best describes your experience background: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. I do not meet the above. 4 To meet the Basic Qualifications Requirements for Attorney, select the option that best describes your bar membership: Answer to this question is required I am an active member of the bar of any U.S. jurisdiction in good standing. I do not meet the above. Grade: All Grades 1 This position is only open to current EPA employees. Are you currently an EPA employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)).&nbsp; While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. &nbsp;NOTE: &nbsp;If you choose not to answer the narrative question(s), you may enter "N/A" as your response. 2 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?&nbsp; Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required Your response must not exceed 200 words. 3 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?&nbsp; Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 4 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?&nbsp; Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 5 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal&nbsp;achievements?&nbsp; Please provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required &lt;span style='font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Aptos',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Aptos; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;'&gt;Your response must not exceed 200 words.&lt;/span&gt; 6 For the four essay question responses above, I certify that I used my own words, and did not use&nbsp;a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Please look at the qualification requirements (both experience and/or education) that are stated in this vacancy announcement. Does your resume clearly contain this information in order to determine you are qualified for the position? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Identify the portion of your resume that demonstrates you have the required experience stated in this announcement. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 Are you aware that your resume must not exceed 2 pages and that your application status will be changed to ineligible if you do not submit a resume that is 2 pages or less? Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 For each position listed on your resume, did you include the position title, company, grade/level (if federal employment), weekly hours worked, and your actual beginning and ending dates of employment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Have you reviewed the vacancy announcement "How to Apply" and required documents section to determine what supplemental material that you must provide? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Are you aware that all applicants, including current EPA employees, must submit proof of education (law school transcripts or documentation of apprentice experience) as part of your application package as outlined in the vacancy announcement? Failure to submit proof of education will be considered an incomplete application, and you will be rated ineligible. Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which resources led you to apply to this EPA position? Answer to this question is required EPA webinar or virtual information session 12.1 Enter month/year of webinar. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair hosted or attended by the EPA 12.1 Enter location, month, and host organization of job fair. Maximum length of 250 characters. Handshake EPA.gov/Careers Social media advertisement (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, or Instagram) Referral from a government or professional contact, friend, or family member Unsolicited search of USAJOBS.gov Email from EPA inviting me to apply because I opted to make my resume/profile searchable on USAJOBS Other View Vacancy Details This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).