Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Qualification Requirements To be considered for this position, you must meet the following qualification requirements: You must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. Please review the level of proficiency required for each competency. Your resume must clearly address how your IT related experience meets the level described. Failure to provide this information may result in loss of consideration for this position. Attention to Detail : Assisted in the development of plans and criteria for a subsystem of an operating, database or e-mail system. Reviewed and made recommendations to a project leader on network systems software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Monitored/Evaluated a system component of a local area network. Provided adjustments or maintenance on LAN or a mainframe system hardware. Reviewed and provided comments on draft policy with regard to implementing or using a systems program. Provided evaluation plans input as a member of a workgroup or team. Designed, tested, installed and/or maintained software for a nationwide computer system. Ran teleprocessing monitors or application servers. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of relational databases. Work experience participating in the design, testing, installation or maintenance of network databases. Developed software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested hardware systems for a major hardware platform. Evaluated software systems for a major hardware platform. Tested and configured application software and hardware. Modified an existing IRM system design as instructed. Modified an existing computer program. Worked with Agency's Internet, Intranet and Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) development and usage. Monitored agency home page and used security packages and hardware devices to protect information on the web and EDI environment. Assisted in monitoring a system or program. Developed an operational manual, directive and/or agency policy to reflect system modifications and new procedures. Monitored compliance with information security requirements at the regional or local level. Assisted in evaluating plans for an advanced system. Reviewed performance data and compared with similar systems at other locations. Analyzed/examined procedures and policy and made recommendations for local policy. Assisted in the set-up and testing of software and hardware for a system component of a local area network. Customer Service : Provided guidance to staff in the area of personal computers or mainframe systems. Participated in staff assistance visits or IT program reviews to advise and improve operations at field locations experiencing problems. Adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate IT needs of the division/office/unit. Provided guidance to staff in modifying existing network design. Provided guidance to staff during the testing and configuration of network hardware from an existing template. Responded to information security and/or audit related questions received from field/region/high level external sources. Implemented and provided training or otherwise disseminated information to regional and local staff regarding their responsibilities for agency security program requirements. Advised management of newly developed cost effective alternative to present IT systems. Oral Communication : Conducted training or other presentations related to network systems. Made frequent contacts with private industry software development contractors or commercial software and hardware vendors. Presented information to manager located in outside agencies or private sector businesses. Facilitated a training class on a new automated system. Problem Solving : Participated in a workgroup to resolve a critical problem in a existing system. Served as a primary resource person for technical problems. Researched local/departmetn problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improve the effectiveness of a program. Recommended adjustments to staff duties to respond to immediate needs of a system problem. Prepared response to program review or other type of audit findings. Determined the vulnerability of local information systems. Researched local/department problems and made recommendations for a change in procedures to correct a long standing problem or improved the effectiveness of a program. 1 In addition, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: Applicant must hold current professional-level cloud certifications in: Amazon Web Services (AWS) Solutions Architect-Professional; Google Cloud Professional Cloud Architect; AND, Microsoft Azure Administrator Associate. Applicants must clearly address this experience in their resume to be found qualified. Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factors for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high-level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills in order to ensure compliance, security, operational excellence, and public trust.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led team meetings to define cloud project vision, set objectives, aligned priorities, and communicated project direction; and/or I have provided guidance on cloud compliance, federal cloud security standards (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)), and best practices, reporting to leadership as needed; and/or I have coordinated team training on new cloud technologies and supported knowledge sharing within the team and with other groups. I have directed agency-wide executive meetings to establish the cloud program’s vision, long-term objectives, strategic priorities, and communicated pivotal cloud policy decisions and agency priorities through executive briefings and national forums; and/or I have provided expert counsel to executive leadership on cloud compliance with federal cloud security standards (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)), enterprise security posture, and alignment with industry best practices, delivering risk analysis, mitigation strategies, and real-time updates on critical cloud incidents; and/or I have presented comprehensive cloud program updates, milestone achievements, budget performance, resource allocation insights, and secured approval for future cloud initiatives during executive board sessions. I have led cross-functional meetings to align project goals, timelines, and organizational expectations while communicating major policy shifts and strategic updates in leadership briefings; and/or I have provided strategic guidance on compliance, enterprise security, and industry best practices, reporting agency-wide adherence to federal cloud security standards (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)); and/or I have delivered updates to senior management on significant incidents, risk assessments, mitigation strategies, and guided management during critical operations or escalations. I I have oversaw training initiatives and executive forums on emerging cloud technologies, while sharing aggregated stakeholder feedback and user satisfaction metrics with senior leadership; and/or I have facilitated collaboration and strategic partnerships across internal units and external vendors, presenting budget performance, resource allocation, and future cloud priorities to executives; and/or I have articulated agency-wide cloud strategies and initiatives in public forums, addressing high-level public or stakeholder concerns about data security, privacy, and cloud adoption during outreach events. I have I have delivered executive-level strategic guidance and feedback to leaders during critical cloud operations and incident escalations, issuing timely communications on major outages or disruptions affecting public-facing cloud systems; and/or I have championed and authorized major cloud training and development programs focused on transformative technologies and frameworks, while delivering aggregated stakeholder and user satisfaction feedback to top leadership; and/or I have forged and maintained high-level strategic partnerships with internal divisions, other agencies, and external cloud service providers, recommended agency-wide cloud innovation and continuous improvement strategies, and addressed public and stakeholder concerns on cloud security, privacy, and adoption during major outreach events. I have delivered feedback and coaching during cloud operations and incident responses, including risk assessments and mitigation plans; and/or I have summarized project outcomes, milestones, budget usage, resource needs, and outlined future initiatives during meetings and reviews; and/or I have shared stakeholder and user feedback, recommended process improvements, explained team strategies and changes, and addressed team questions on security, privacy, or cloud adoption. None of the above. 4 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, is responsible for the preparation of Department of Justice briefing materials, correspondence, analysis of information technology projects, executive presentations, and other written documents. The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate complex information technology related information to targeted audiences.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have drafted and distributed summaries on cloud program objectives, progress, alignment with goals, key milestones, project outcomes, and communicated policy changes and priorities through division-wide memorandums and updates; and/or I have prepared detailed compliance reports and risk assessments on federal cloud security standards (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)) and best practices for division leadership, including incident updates and impact analysis; and/or I have developed and shared cloud training materials, best practice guides, and internal reports to promote collaboration and knowledge sharing across division/department. I have drafted and distributed summaries on cloud project objectives, progress, key milestones, and alignment with goals, while communicating policy updates and project direction via emails and chats with team; and/or I have prepared reports and checklists on team compliance with federal cloud security standards (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)) and best practices for team leads and supervisors; and/or I have developed and shared cloud training documentation, quick-reference guides, and internal notes to support team knowledge sharing and collaboration. I have authored post-incident reports and lessons learned, shared findings within the team, and provided updates and impact analysis on cloud incidents or security events; and/or I have compiled reports on cloud budget usage, resource needs, upcoming tasks, and objectives to support team planning; and/or I have collected user and stakeholder feedback, proposed improvements for team cloud processes, explained team-specific strategies and changes, and addressed questions about data security, privacy, or adoption through written communications and frequently asked questions (FAQs). I have drafted and distributed organization-wide summaries and updates on cloud program objectives, progress, key milestones, project outcomes, and alignment with enterprise goals; and/or I have prepared compliance reports and analysis for senior leadership, documenting adherence to federal cloud security standards (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) and industry best practices, and how the organization was meeting requirements; and/or I have developed and shared accessible cloud training materials, best practice guides, and cross-departmental knowledge-sharing reports for the organization. I have authored post-incident reports and lessons learned for division/department, distributing findings and updates on cloud incidents or disruptions impacting operations; and/or I have compiled and reported on cloud budget usage, resource allocation, upcoming initiatives, strategic objectives, and aggregated stakeholder feedback for divisional planning and transparency; and/or I have proposed actionable improvements and innovative cloud process recommendations while addressing division/department’s questions and concerns about data security, privacy, and cloud adoption through formal communications and frequently asked questions (FAQs). I have authored and distributed post-incident reports, risk assessments, mitigation strategies, and analysis of cloud incidents or outages for organization-wide review; and/or I have communicated major policy changes, strategic objectives, upcoming initiatives, and enterprise-wide cloud strategies through memorandums, newsletters, proposals, and briefings; and/or I have compiled and reported on cloud budget usage, resource allocation, aggregated stakeholder feedback, and proposed organization-wide improvements and innovations. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, must ensure that computer and network security measures, as prescribed by policy statements, are being followed. He/she employs safeguards, implements changes to current security systems, and trains staff on proper security measures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have oversaw compliance with federal security policies (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), Authority To Operate (ATOs)) for high-level impact cloud systems and enforced agency-specific controls for a large organization; and/or I have monitored cloud infrastructure and operations for security threats, coordinated vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, and security assessments for a large organization; and/or I have implemented and maintained security safeguards including firewalls, encryption, identity and access management (IAM) policies, and phishing-resistant multifactor authentication for a large organization. I have assisted with compliance monitoring and security threat detection for cloud-based systems; and/or I have assisted in implementing and maintaining cloud-based security safeguards such as firewalls, access controls, and managed user access under supervision; and/or I have participated in vulnerability scans, security assessments, and contributed to updating incident response procedures; and/or I have contributed towards training staff on security practices and collaborated with teams on routine security matters; and/or I have assisted in maintaining security tools, service agreements, and encryption keys; and/or I have adapted to new security requirements as directed and reported security issues and updates to supervisors and stakeholders. I have developed, updated, and tested incident response playbooks, and led security training for a large organization to ensure staff awareness of cloud security best practices; and/or I have collaborated across departments to align security practices, selected security tools, managed encryption keys, and adapted controls to evolving threats and regulations; and/or I have reviewed and enforced security-related Service-Level Agreements (SLAs) and communicated the enterprise’s cloud security posture, incidents, and compliance status to agency leadership. I have oversaw compliance with federal security policies (i.e., Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA), Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), Authority To Operate (ATOs)) for moderate or low-level impact cloud systems and enforced agency-specific controls for a moderate or small organization; and/or I have monitored cloud infrastructure for threats, coordinated vulnerability assessments and security testing, and maintained/upgraded security tools for a moderate or small organization; and/or I have reviewed and enforced security controls and service agreements for a moderate or small organization. I have implemented and managed security safeguards, including firewalls, access controls, and identity and access policies for a moderate or small organization; and/or I have developed and updated incident response procedures, led security training, and collaborated across teams in a moderate or small organization to address risks; and/or I have managed data protection processes, adapted security measures to evolving requirements, and communicated security status to leadership and stakeholders of a moderate or small organization. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, must be capable of implementing policies, planning and management in a cloud environment which requires a thoughtful and systematic approach. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have contributed to developing and refining cloud governance policies, standards, and guidance to define business objectives and requirements; and/or I have supported application planning and migration to cloud platforms, ensuring alignment with organizational goals and compliance; and/or I have assisted with coordinating teams to implement cloud architecture best practices, reliability measures, and compliance requirements; and/or I have monitored cloud usage, identified operational improvement opportunities, and conducted risk assessments with mitigation recommendations; and/or I have collaborated with cybersecurity staff to strengthen security frameworks, participated in vendor management, and reviewed service agreements; and/or I have assisted in facilitating staff training on cloud technologies and compliance, updating policies, and prepared reports on cloud operations for leadership. I have contributed to developing, implementing, and updating cloud policies, standards, and guidance; and/or I have supported planning, migration, and coordination of teams for cloud application architecture; and/or I have collaborated with cybersecurity teams to enhance security measures and conducted risk assessments with mitigation recommendations; and/or I have participated in vendor management and service agreement reviews; and/or I have assisted in facilitating staff training on cloud compliance; and/or I have prepared reports on cloud operations and outcomes for leadership. I have developed and enforced cloud governance policies to ensure compliance with government regulations and security standards; and/or I have led strategic planning and migration of critical government applications to cloud platforms, optimizing cost, scalability, and performance; and/or I have managed cross-functional teams to implement cloud architecture best practices, including high availability and disaster recovery; and/or I have coordinated with cybersecurity teams to design robust security frameworks and conducted risk assessments with mitigation strategies; and/or I have oversaw vendor management, negotiated Service-level Agreements (SLAs), and established cloud usage metrics to identify cost savings and operational efficiencies; and/or I have facilitated staff training on cloud technologies and policy compliance, regularly updating policies and reporting key outcomes to executive leadership. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, plays a crucial role in designing and maintaining the infrastructure of the cloud platforms.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have managed the deployment of multiple cloud-based digital services, enabling rapid launch and improved service delivery for agency stakeholders; and/or I have leveraged dedicated cloud offerings to ensure all cloud systems adhered to strict data sovereignty and security compliance standards; and/or I have coordinated with cross-functional teams to align cloud solutions with business and regulatory requirements; and/or I have utilized existing solutions to automate cloud orchestration and provisioning models; and/or I have leveraged cloud-native tools to automate disaster recovery and backup processes to ensure seamless business continuity; and/or I have assisted in maintaining documentation and standard operating procedures for cloud operations and incident response. I have optimized existing cloud architecture to enhance performance and reduce infrastructure costs through strategic resource allocation and automation; and/or I have improved deployment efficiency and operational agility by designing and implementing continuous integration (CI)/continuous delivery/deployment (CD) pipelines and containerized solutions; and/or I have led the migration of critical agency applications to a secure cloud platform (i.e., Amazon Web Services (AWS) GovCloud) while ensuring compliance with security and data policies such as Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) and agency-specific requirements. I have assisted in the migration of agency workloads to the cloud, supporting senior engineers in planning and execution; and/or I have supported the integration of cloud-based Application Programming Interface (APIs) for improved interoperability with third-party government services; and/or I have assisted in monitoring and reporting on cloud resource usage, contributing to cost management and optimization efforts; and/or I have participated in the implementation of cloud security controls under the guidance of senior team members, ensuring compliance with agency policies; and/or I have contributed to the development and testing of cloud applications, following best practices; and/or I have reviewed cloud operations and incident response documentation and standard operating procedures and identified necessary changes. I have developed and maintained comprehensive disaster recovery and backup strategies using cloud-native tools to support business continuity; and/or I have designed and enforced governance for cloud infrastructure by establishing agency-wide standards, policies, and procedures for adoption and management; and/or I have orchestrated a hybrid cloud architecture capable of supporting both legacy systems and modern workloads for greater operational flexibility. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, is responsible for analyzing, designing, and implementing new systems in the cloud which involves a structured approach.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have evaluated the existing infrastructure and identified areas that needed improvement or modification to meet new system requirements; and/or I have identified potential risks related to security, compliance, and performance and developed strategies to mitigate them; and/or I have developed a high-level architecture for new systems, considering components, like networking, storage, compute, and databases; and/or I have ensured scalability high available and fault tolerance. I have leveraged expertise of cloud infrastructure and services, operating systems, and best practices to proactively anticipate, prevent, and resolve issues; and/or I have built and validated scalable cloud-based applications that leveraged serverless technologies for real-time government data processing; and/or I have ensured Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) or Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) security controls were identified and integrated into the development of high-impact rated cloud systems. I have used tools Terraform, Amazon Web Services (AWS) CloudFormation or Azure Resource Manager to codify and automate the deployment of infrastructure components; and/or I have implemented tools such as Ansible or Puppet to automate configuration tasks and maintain consistency across environments; and/or I have setup Continuous Integration (CI)/Continuous Deployment(CD) pipelines to automate the testing, building and deployment of application code. I have led the strategic planning and migration of critical government applications from on-premises to cloud platforms, optimizing for cost, scalability, and performance; and/or I have led the development and rollout of cloud-based systems that implemented identity and access management (IAM) capabilities where authentication and integration were federated to an Identity Provider (IdP); and/or I have led cross-functional teams to implement cloud architecture best practices to ensure systems achieved high availability and were resilient to disasters. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Cloud Engineering Section, is responsible for the continuous evaluation of his/her subordinate workforce. He/she will directly and indirectly supervise subordinate employees and provide opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievance before it escalated to higher level for action. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines were met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product/increased morale. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).