Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service shich is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Choose the answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to Grade 13 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the requirement described above. 3 Which of the following statements demonstrate your experience in both leading and participating in work teams? Answer to this question is required I have led a large work team or group in managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) of application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have led a work team dealing in issues of similar interest. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. I have worked on a team or project with others under some constraint (such as short deadline). I have not done any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience reviewing others' work (for example, peers, subordinates) to verify operational and regulatory compliance? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity. 5 Which of the following best describes your ability to develop policy and procedures for a major organization? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in developing policy and procedures for a major organization. I have assisted a supervisor or senior employee in the development of policy and procedures for a major organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed policy and procedures for a major organization as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in policy and procedure writing but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed policy and procedures for a major organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 6 What roles have you taken in determining the policies and procedures of your work unit? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have followed the policies and procedures set by others. I have enforced the policies and procedures set by others. I have interpreted the policies and procedures set by others. I have served on a committee responsible for setting policies and procedures. I have set or changed the policies and procedures. I have not done any of the above. 7 Which best demonstrates your knowledge of safety and occupational health engineering methods and techniques sufficient to evaluate and resolve safety and health problems where standard methods may not be available? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working in a complex environment with multiple dotted-line reporting structures engaging and motivating a team comprised of diverse specialists performing a variety of duties (animal care, laboratories, construction workers, maintenance staff, field researchers, etc.) to ensure the safety and health of all workers. This experience included collaborating with entities in both my organization, as well as a centralized safety unit in planning, implementing, and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a senior specialist conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing, and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a team member conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a museum or cultural facility. I have experience with physical ergonomic issues in the workplace. I do not have any experience in this area. 8 Which of the following identify your experience creating training resources for staff and visitors? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently written laboratory safety plans. I have assisted with writing laboratory safety plans. I have independently written training materials and guides. I have assisted with writing training materials and guides. I have written web applications and presentations on safety. I have developed PowerPoint presentations on safety. I have no experience in this area. 9 Which of the following statements best represents your experience in managing safety programs? Answer to this question is required I have led a team responsible for the development of a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites. I have led a team responsible for the development of a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or worksite. I have implemented a worker safety and health program or training program as a team member. I do not have experience in this area. 10 Which of the following reflects your ability to implement and manage a comprehensive safety training program? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had any experience, education, or training in performing any of the tasks. I have developed training programs for supervisors as a regular part of my job with some supervisory guidance. I have communicated verbally to supervisors to provide recommendations on safety training programs as a regular part of my job. I have delivered effective training presentations to senior staff through close supervision by a supervisor. I have independently developed and delivered safety training programs, and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff without review by a supervisor. 11 Which of the following work environments do you have experience managing safety programs in? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Historic house or site. Library or archive. Conservation laboratory. Museum. Zoo or similar holding of non-domestic animals. Arboretum, botanic garden, or other horticultural site. Park or outdoor recreation area. Performing arts or similar public space. Office. Retail. Food service. Construction. Warehouse. Laboratory. Manufacturing. Machine or cabinet shop. Agriculture. Hospital. School. None of the above. 12 Which of the following describes your ability to conduct investigations of safety and health mishaps? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated regular accidents, or minor safety and health incidents. I have led or participated in investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 13 Which of the following best demonstrates your knowledge of building design, construction, renovation, and maintenance operations? Answer to this question is required I have experience reviewing and making recommendations on facility projects to solve safety and health concerns. This experience includes ensuring building codes and scheduled maintenance operations and construction principles are applied to new or renovated designs. I have experience conducting health and safety inspections on biological or medical facilities. I have experience conducting health and safety inspections on office facilities. I do not have any experience in this area. 14 Which of the following best reflects your ability to review and analyze large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in reviewing and analyzing large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards. I have assisted a team in reviewing and analyzing large constructions plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards under close supervision I have independently reviewed and analyzed large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff under close review by a supervisor. I have independently reviewed and analyzed large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff without review by a supervisor. 15 What is your experience in applying safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, practices, and procedures to advise on or resolve technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements applicable to a zoo’s unique functions and facilities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have developed safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a biohazard laboratory or hospital. I have developed safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a setting that includes both indoor and outdoor areas. I have experience/education developing safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a zoo or other animal-related setting. I have experience developing safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a general laboratory setting. I do not have experience in this area. 16 Which of the following demonstrates your knowledge of the principles and practices of occupational safety and health in the application of safe work practices for reducing traumatic injuries? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team responsible for determining the cause and developing interventions for reducing traumatic injuries, illnesses, and hazardous exposures at the national level or across multiple worksites. I have experience leading the development of a comprehensive safety and health plan and/or a training program for a company or worksite. I have experience implementing a worker safety and health program or training program as a team member. I do not have experience in this area. 17 Which of the following statements describe your experience collaborating with different people and groups to improve safety? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have implemented safety programs with people from one organization with shared goals. I have implemented safety programs in a setting that included people from multiple organizations and compatible goals. I have implemented safety programs in a setting that included people from multiple organizations and conflicting goals. I have negotiated compromise with management in order to mitigate safety hazards. I have negotiated compromise between management from different organizations in order to mitigate safety hazards. I have not done any of the above tasks. 18 Do you have experience preparing multi-media presentations including charts and graphs to represent results of analysis or other technical information? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Which of the following describes your experience providing advice to management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I make technical recommendations regarding unsafe practices, which require departure from existing management policy. I have consulted and coordinated with agency experts including industrial hygienists, physicians, environmental engineers, fire prevention engineers and/or sanitation engineers in the resolution of safety problems. I have consulted and coordinated with agency experts including industrial hygienists, physicians, environmental engineers, fire prevention engineers and/or sanitation engineers in the development of safety procedures. I have provided technical guidance and assistance on diverse environmental and hazardous conditions in widely dispersed geographic locations. I have administered occupational health programs within the organizational unit, including medical monitoring, immunizations, and injury/accident reporting. I have developed and administered safety related training programs that inform and educate employees. I have maintained records of employee attendance at safety related training and sent out notices of refresher training when due. I have not performed any of these tasks. 20 Which of the following best describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of an organization (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management?s views to them and to identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance and knowledge. None of the above. 21 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating information in written format? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have provided written reports of findings/solutions. I have written official directives, instructions and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written health and safety plans for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I have written health and safety plans for worksites, operated environmental monitoring instruments to detect airborne contaminants, and determined the level of personal protective gear required. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 22 Which of the following statements best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals? Answer to this question is required I have explained agency policy and regulations and provided background of the rationale for such policies, as well as used negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. I have routinely educated, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. I have routinely worked with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have routinely worked with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. None of the above. 23 Which of the following statements describes your experience in collaborating and interacting with others? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have collaborated and interacted with others in my unit on tasks or projects. I have collaborated and interacted with colleagues outside of my unit but within in my organization/institution on tasks or projects. I have collaborated and interacted with others outside of my organization/institution on tasks, projects, or initiatives. I have chaired committees or working groups. I have no experience collaborating with others. Grade: 15 1 Choose the answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and is at or at least equivalent to Grade 14 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not meet the requirement described above. 2 Which of the following statements demonstrate your experience in both leading and participating in work teams? Answer to this question is required I have led a large work team or group in managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) of application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have led a work team dealing in issues of similar interest. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. I have worked on a team or project with others under some constraint (such as short deadline). I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following statements best describe your experience leading, supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in leadership skills, supervision or management, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not had experience, education or training in leadership skills, supervision, or management. I have experience leading, supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have experience leading, supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience leading, supervising and managing a workforce of highly skilled professionals as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 4 Which of the following describes your experience in supervising one or more employees? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience supervising multiple employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have some experience supervising employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have experience supervising employees including scheduling work assignments and monitoring employee progress. I have been trained in supervision but do not have any experience in this area. I do not have training or experience in this area. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your level of experience reviewing others' work (for example, peers, subordinates) to verify operational and regulatory compliance? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn. I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level. I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform this activity more effectively. I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively. I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity. 6 Which of the following best describes your ability to develop policy and procedures for a major organization? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education, or training in developing policy and procedures for a major organization. I have assisted a supervisor or senior employee in the development of policy and procedures for a major organization on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have developed policy and procedures for a major organization as a central or major part of my work, and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in policy and procedure writing but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have developed policy and procedures for a major organization as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 7 What roles have you taken in determining the policies and procedures of your work unit? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have followed the policies and procedures set by others. I have enforced the policies and procedures set by others. I have interpreted the policies and procedures set by others. I have served on a committee responsible for setting policies and procedures. I have set or changed the policies and procedures. I have not done any of the above. 8 Which best demonstrates your knowledge of safety and occupational health engineering methods and techniques sufficient to evaluate and resolve safety and health problems where standard methods may not be available? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience working in a complex environment with multiple dotted-line reporting structures engaging and motivating a team comprised of diverse specialists performing a variety of duties (animal care, laboratories, construction workers, maintenance staff, field researchers, etc.) to ensure the safety and health of all workers. This experience included collaborating with entities in both my organization, as well as a centralized safety unit in planning, implementing, and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a senior specialist conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. This experience included collaborating with other entities in planning, implementing, and managing program objectives for safety and health. I have experience as a team member conducting research in ensuring the safety and health of workers in an industrial environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have experience independently conducting research to ensure the safety and health of workers in a museum or cultural facility. I have experience with physical ergonomic issues in the workplace. I do not have any experience in this area. 9 Which of the following identify your experience creating training resources for staff and visitors? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have independently written laboratory safety plans. I have assisted with writing laboratory safety plans. I have independently written training materials and guides. I have assisted with writing training materials and guides. I have written web applications and presentations on safety. I have developed PowerPoint presentations on safety. I have no experience in this area. 10 Which of the following statements best represents your experience in managing safety programs? Answer to this question is required I have led a team responsible for the development of a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites. I have led a team responsible for the development of a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or organization with multiple worksites. I have developed and managed a comprehensive safety and occupational health program for a company or worksite. I have implemented a worker safety and health program or training program as a team member. I do not have experience in this area. 11 Which of the following reflects your ability to implement and manage a comprehensive safety training program? (Choose all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have not had any experience, education, or training in performing any of the tasks. I have developed training programs for supervisors as a regular part of my job with some supervisory guidance. I have communicated verbally to supervisors to provide recommendations on safety training programs as a regular part of my job. I have delivered effective training presentations to senior staff through close supervision by a supervisor. I have independently developed and delivered safety training programs, and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff without review by a supervisor. 12 Which of the following work environments do you have experience managing safety programs in? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Historic house or site. Library or archive. Conservation laboratory. Museum. Zoo or similar holding of non-domestic animals. Arboretum, botanic garden, or other horticultural site. Park or outdoor recreation area. Performing arts or similar public space. Office. Retail. Food service. Construction. Warehouse. Laboratory. Manufacturing. Machine or cabinet shop. Agriculture. Hospital. School. None of the above. 13 Which of the following describes your ability to conduct investigations of safety and health mishaps? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have led investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have participated as a team member in investigations of worker deaths, serious injuries or illnesses. I have independently investigated regular accidents, or minor safety and health incidents. I have led or participated in investigations of minor safety and health incidents. I do not have any experience in this area. 14 Which of the following best demonstrates your knowledge of building design, construction, renovation, and maintenance operations? Answer to this question is required I have experience reviewing and making recommendations on facility projects to solve safety and health concerns. This experience includes ensuring building codes and scheduled maintenance operations and construction principles are applied to new or renovated designs. I have experience conducting health and safety inspections on biological or medical facilities. I have experience conducting health and safety inspections on office facilities. I do not have any experience in this area. 15 Which of the following best reflects your ability to review and analyze large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in reviewing and analyzing large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards. I have assisted a team in reviewing and analyzing large constructions plans, drawings, and blueprints for safety hazards under close supervision I have independently reviewed and analyzed large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff under close review by a supervisor. I have independently reviewed and analyzed large construction plans, drawings, and blueprints and provided guidance and recommendation on safety issues to all staff without review by a supervisor. 16 What is your experience in applying safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, practices, and procedures to advise on or resolve technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements applicable to a zoo’s unique functions and facilities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a building/office environment. I have developed safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a biohazard laboratory or hospital. I have developed safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a setting that includes both indoor and outdoor areas. I have experience/education developing safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a zoo or other animal-related setting. I have experience developing safety and occupational health programs to ensure the safety and health of workers in a general laboratory setting. I do not have experience in this area. 17 Which of the following demonstrates your knowledge of the principles and practices of occupational safety and health in the application of safe work practices for reducing traumatic injuries? Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team responsible for determining the cause and developing interventions for reducing traumatic injuries, illnesses, and hazardous exposures at the national level or across multiple worksites. I have experience leading the development of a comprehensive safety and health plan and/or a training program for a company or worksite. I have experience implementing a worker safety and health program or training program as a team member. I do not have experience in this area. 18 Which of the following statements describe your experience collaborating with different people and groups to improve safety? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have implemented safety programs with people from one organization with shared goals. I have implemented safety programs in a setting that included people from multiple organizations and compatible goals. I have implemented safety programs in a setting that included people from multiple organizations and conflicting goals. I have negotiated compromise with management in order to mitigate safety hazards. I have negotiated compromise between management from different organizations in order to mitigate safety hazards. I have not done any of the above tasks. 19 Do you have experience preparing multi-media presentations including charts and graphs to represent results of analysis or other technical information? Answer to this question is required Yes No 20 Which of the following describes your experience providing advice to management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I make technical recommendations regarding unsafe practices, which require departure from existing management policy. I have consulted and coordinated with agency experts including industrial hygienists, physicians, environmental engineers, fire prevention engineers and/or sanitation engineers in the resolution of safety problems. I have consulted and coordinated with agency experts including industrial hygienists, physicians, environmental engineers, fire prevention engineers and/or sanitation engineers in the development of safety procedures. I have provided technical guidance and assistance on diverse environmental and hazardous conditions in widely dispersed geographic locations. I have administered occupational health programs within the organizational unit, including medical monitoring, immunizations, and injury/accident reporting. I have developed and administered safety related training programs that inform and educate employees. I have maintained records of employee attendance at safety related training and sent out notices of refresher training when due. I have not performed any of these tasks. 21 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating information in written format? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have written college research/term papers. I have written technical manuals and/or training manuals to comply with safety standards. I have provided written reports of findings/solutions. I have written official directives, instructions and safety notices for distribution outside of my immediate office. I have documented findings from site evaluations and developed written evaluation of findings. I have written health and safety plans for worksites at government buildings/facilities. I have written health and safety plans for worksites, operated environmental monitoring instruments to detect airborne contaminants, and determined the level of personal protective gear required. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience providing interpersonal communication in support of an organization (check all that apply): Answer to this question is required I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization. I have explained technical or other complex information to wide variety of individuals. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. I have exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management?s views to them and to identify potential problems. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance and knowledge. None of the above. 23 Which of the following statements best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals? Answer to this question is required I have explained agency policy and regulations and provided background of the rationale for such policies, as well as used negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. I have routinely educated, advised, or participated in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. I have routinely worked with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have routinely worked with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. None of the above. 24 Which of the following statements describes your experience in collaborating and interacting with others? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have collaborated and interacted with others in my unit on tasks or projects. I have collaborated and interacted with colleagues outside of my unit but within in my organization/institution on tasks or projects. I have collaborated and interacted with others outside of my organization/institution on tasks, projects, or initiatives. I have chaired committees or working groups. I have no experience collaborating with others. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.