Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the specialized experience for this GS-2210-11 position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service or comparable pay band system related to the work of this position as outline in the vacancy announcement. I have Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 Which of the following activities do you have experience monitoring capacity and performance? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Modeling and analyzing infrastructure systems capacity and performance data in order to increase efficiency of operations Planning for future systems expansion and enhancements Improving system reliability and redundancy System tuning for optimum performance to match customer requirements and to maximize resource utilization None of the above 3 Please choose the answer(s)that best reflect your experience in configuring and optimizing network servers, hubs, routers, and switches. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required I utilize knowledge of the architecture and topology of software, hardware, and networks, including LANS, WANS, and telecommunications systems, their components and associated protocols and standards, and how they operate and integrate with one another and with associated controlling software. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install infrastructure components. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install hubs. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install switches. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install routers. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install wireless communications. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install satellite. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install video conferencing. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install telephone PBS/switch and/or VoIP. I set up, support, troubleshoot, or install network-wide Internet access and ISPs. I evaluate, select, and implement data communications equipment. I plan, implement, and/or maintain network firewalls. I plan, implement, and/or support a multi-layer anti-virus infrastructure for a large organization. I plan, implement, and/or support Cyber security Intrusion Detection Systems. None of the above 4 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as the technical lead of an IT organization&rsquo;s annual desktop computer lifecycle project? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as the technical lead of an IT organization’s annual desktop computer lifecycle project. This includes experience overseeing day-to-day operations and collecting necessary data about devices eligible for replacement, developing replacement timelines and customer communications, organizing information, and reporting on project status, and making recommendations for process improvements. Manages data migration projects, especially Salesforce™. I have experience serving as a team member on a team involved with an IT organization’s annual desktop computer lifecycle project. This level includes experience making recommendations for process improvements and collecting data about devices eligible for replacement. I have experience serving as a team member on a team involved with an IT organization’s annual desktop computer lifecycle project. This level includes collecting data about devices eligible for replacement. I do not have related experience. 5 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge of and experience in selecting and using rules, regulations, and procedures for development of lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements? Answer to this question is required I have used my experience to collaborate with end users and other specialists to select and use rules, regulations, and procedures to develop lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have participated on a team with other specialists to select and use rules, regulations, and procedures to develop lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have independently selected rules, regulations, and procedures to participate in the development of lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have independently selected applicable rules, regulations, and procedures to review and analyze lifecycle processes for new or modified systems as well as licensing renewals and replacements. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 6 In the context of web development project management, which stages of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) have you led or been significantly involved in? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Gathering and analyzing the needs and requirements of the project. Creating specifications, blueprints, and architecture designs based on requirements. Translating design documentation into actual websites. Testing the websites for faults or bugs. Deploying the software to the user / production environment. Ensuring the software runs smoothly and stays up-to-date with user needs and technology advancements. Keeping all stakeholders informed and engaged throughout the SDLC. Identifying, assessing, and mitigating potential risks at each stage of the SDLC. None of the Above 7 Which of the following best describes your experience applying project management methodologies and techniques for requirements gathering, designing, and developing advanced computer technologies and software applications? (Select only one answer). &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have led a project team through the SDLC process for requirements gathering, designing, and developing a large-scale IT enterprise management system. I have led a project team through the SDLC process for requirements gathering, designing, and developing a large-scale IT enterprise management system. I have prepared project planning, reviews and work breakdown structures that are used in the planning, budgeting, execution, and control of software development projects. I have participated as a team member on a team which used the SDLC process for requirements gathering, designing, and developing, deploying, operating, and maintaining a large-scale IT enterprise management system. None of the above 8 Please identify the ways in which you have used oral communication skills as a regular part of your job (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided technical direction or task clarification to others I have directed the work of others as their formal supervisor I have had regular interactions with both internal and external customers to exchange information I have made presentations and/or provided training to audiences with varied knowledge levels I have described rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to others I have reported on routine issues to senior staff or others outside of my organization I have described a project’s scope or technical specifications to other such as potential contractors I have served as the liaison among various stakeholders on a project I have surveyed staff or managers to acquire specific mission priorities, programmatic, and/or technical information. I have briefed others both inside and outside of my organization on complex or contentious issues I have successfully negotiated with others to resolve complex or contentious issues. I have successfully persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints, or partner in efforts I have typically worked alone 9 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating orally to provide information? Answer to this question is required I have experience giving presentations and conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information, responding to questions or resolving issues/problems including providing general information to co-workers and staff members, office visitors or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience conducting meetings for the purpose of exchanging information, responding to questions or providing general information to co-workers and staff members, office visitors or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers, staff members, or office visitors; or responding to customer/client questions. I have experience providing general information to co-workers and staff members and office visitors. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience procuring information technology services within an information technology organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have analyzed sources for the services procured. I have monitored contract performance. I have negotiated contract modifications. I have conducted policy research and interpretation in making decisions. I have provided advice to managers on options in purchasing services. None of the above. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your knowledge and experience in selecting rules, regulations and procedures related to contracting and providing oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders? Answer to this question is required I have independently selected and used rules, regulations, and procedures related to contracting and used my experience to collaborate with end users and other specialists to provided oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders. I have independently selected and used rules, regulations and procedures related to contracting and provided oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders. I have participated on a team of with other specialists to select and use rules, regulations and procedures related to contracting and provided oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders, and/or task orders. I am familiar with rules, regulations, and procedures related to contracting, but I have no direct experience providing oversight to outside vendors involved with performing work on smaller IT contracts, purchase orders and/or task orders. I have no experience accomplishing any of the above duties and responsibilities. 12 Which of the following best describes your knowledge of and experience assisting in the study and analysis of one or more areas of IT (security, applications, LAN/WAN, customer support, audio/video, etc.); participating in the identification of potential operational improvements, development and maintenance of enterprise architecture; and performance of a variety of telecommunication control functions? Answer to this question is required I have participated as a team member on a team assisting in the study and analysis of one area of IT (security, applications, LAN/WAN, customer support, audio/video, etc.); participating in the identification of potential operational improvements, development and maintenance of enterprise architecture; and performance of a variety of telecommunication control functions. I have experience independently assisting in the study and analysis of one or more areas of IT (security, applications, LAN/WAN, customer support, audio/video, etc.); participating in the identification of potential operational improvements, development and maintenance of enterprise architecture; and performance of a variety of telecommunication control functions. None of the above 13 Indicate your experience with overall computer systems management (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have managed users’ experience technologies and methodologies. I have managed software modernization efforts, and supported the design, planning, development and deployment of software. I have managed the development and implementation of infrastructure improvements. I have analyzed and refined system requirements and plans. I have managed database and system administration activities. No experience Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.