Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to edit materials for publication.** Using established editing principles and techniques, reviewed and edited new and updated online and printed documents for publication in a professional work environment. Rewrote, reorganized and recommended ways of presenting material to guarantee balance, accuracy, appropriate tone, clarity and thoroughness and addressed syntax, punctuation and style. Answer to this question is required As an agency or organization authority on editing and publishing, frequently and without supervision reviewed and substantively edited an extensive range of difficult documents (e.g., news or feature stories written for publication online or in print) in a professional work environment for a general-interest audience. Using a high level of editorial expertise, reviewed and substantively edited an extensive range of documents (e.g., articles, study guides, newsletters, training materials, proposals, catalogs, handbooks) in a professional work environment for an audience of subject matter experts and clients. Frequently reviewed and substantively edited an extensive range of documents (e.g., memoranda, management reports, promotion literature) in a professional environment for subject matter experts. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to communicate in writing.** Wrote factual, analytical, technical or persuasive written materials for print and non-print media such as: 1) feature stories, 2) news stories, 3) event coverage, 4) promotional material, 5) speeches, 6) scripts, 7) processes, procedures or manuals, and 8) memoranda, adhering to rules of spelling, grammar, punctuation, and style. This includes tailoring the tone, level of diction, form, depth and level of detail, and content of the information to the context and needs of the target audience. Answer to this question is required Wrote ALL of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Consistently met deadlines. Systematically ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required editing by supervisors. Wrote SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Consistently met publication deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required substantial editing by supervisors. Wrote FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above listed documents in a professional work environment. Met assignment deadlines. Ensured accuracy of material and suitability for final distribution by checking all aspects of the work product in a consistent manner. Written work seldom required substantial editing by supervisors. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to gather, comprehend, assimilate, interpret and convey information.** Collected information from reliable sources, synthesized or evaluated findings and presented conclusions in written form to diverse audiences. Tasks included: 1) explaining and interpreting the scope of the task, intended audience and ultimate product, 2) locating and utilizing resources and sources of information, 3) identifying relevant information-gathering techniques, 4) collecting data and information, 5) organizing, evaluating and synthesizing findings, and 6) communicating findings in a manner that satisfied the task requirements. Answer to this question is required While consulting senior managers, frequently and independently performed ALL of the above for projects with significant consequences for an organization or agency. For example, drafted congressional testimony for appropriations or prepared reports for Senior Managers. Worked with mid-level Library managers, frequently and independently performed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above in a professional work environment for projects with significant consequences for the organization. Worked with subject matter experts, frequently and independently performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above in a professional work environment for projects with significant consequences for the organization. For example, prepared operational reports. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals on writing and editing projects in a professional work environment. This included the ability to communicate style and editing guidelines and provide constructive feedback on revisions to written products. This also included relating well to and showing understanding and respect for people from diverse cultural, racial, educational, professional, etc., backgrounds. Answer to this question is required Worked effectively with senior managers, staff, and clients inside and outside the organization to prepare various written and online materials. Worked effectively with managers and research staff inside an organization to prepare various written and online materials. Worked effectively with colleagues to prepare various written and online materials. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to apply editorial style rules. Applied style rules derived from multiple sources (e.g., AP, Chicago, GPO) to ensure consistency across publications and adherence to professional standards. Answer to this question is required As an editor in a professional publications setting, routinely reviewed and corrected COMPLEX manuscripts (e.g., feature stories, blog entries, reports, books, research papers) for style consistency, requiring the integration of information from MULTIPLE style guidelines (e.g., Chicago style, GPO style, AP style). As an editor in a professional publications setting, routinely reviewed MODERATELY COMPLEX manuscripts (e.g., long articles, brochures) for style consistency, requiring the integration of information from MULTIPLE style guidelines (e.g., Chicago style, GPO style, AP style). As an editor in a professional publications setting, reviewed STANDARD manuscripts (e.g., short articles, pamphlets) for style consistency based on house style. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).