Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content United States Department of Transportation USDOT Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 To qualify for the GS-11, you must have at least 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the federal service. Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience related to the qualifications requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. My qualifying specialized experience includes experience working as an audit team member ensuring overall projects are accomplished within Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) and other established guidelines and timeline's; experience researching and planning audit engagements; experience collecting and analyzing data, documenting findings, and making recommendations; experience participating in and conducting interviews, briefings, exit conferences, and other oral communication in order to acquire or exchange information or facts needed to complete audit assignments or influence acceptance of audit findings; experience preparing and/or contributing to written reports, working papers, and other documents in order to appropriately document findings and results. I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have a percentage of the required specialized experience and a percentage of the required graduate level education such that, when the percentages of the required graduate education and specialized experience are combined, they equal 100%. I do not meet the requirements as described above. 2 GS-11: Choose the statement that best describes your education and/or specialized experience that qualifies you for this position.&nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I possess at least one year of equal or equivalent experience as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is well defined in my resume. 2.1 Describe your experience planning and conducting audits in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS). Maximum length of 700 characters. 2.2 Describe a situation where you demonstrated strong written and oral communication skills in a professional or audit setting. Maximum length of 700 characters. 2.3 Describe your experience working as part of a team on an audit or analytical project. Maximum length of 700 characters. I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Transcripts have been provided with my application. 2.1 Describe how your academic training prepared you to plan, conduct, or support audits&mdash;particularly in transportation or public sector programs. Maximum length of 700 characters. 2.2 Describe how your education helped you develop strong written and oral communication skills. Maximum length of 700 characters. 2.3 Describe how your academic experience demonstrates critical thinking, analytical ability, and teamwork. Maximum length of 700 characters. I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Transcripts have been provided with my application and the matching experience is well described in my resume. 2.1 Describe your experience and or education planning and conducting audits in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS). Maximum length of 700 characters. 2.2 Describe a situation where you demonstrated strong written and oral communication skills in a professional or audit setting or in your education setting. Maximum length of 700 characters. 2.3 Describe your experience and/or education working as part of a team on an audit or analytical project. Maximum length of 700 characters. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Please indicate all of the following degree(s) or certification(s) that you possess:&nbsp;(No points assessed &ndash; for informational use only) Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) Certified Government Financial Manager (CGFM) Grade: 12 1 GS-12: To qualify, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equal or equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the federal service. Choose the statement that best describes your experience related to the minimum basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 in the federal service. My qualifying specialized experience includes: Experience working as an audit team member ensuring overall projects are accomplished within Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and other established guidelines and timelines; experience independently researching and planning audit engagements; experience interpreting governmental regulations, experience collecting and independently analyzing data, documenting findings, and making recommendations; experience independently conducting interviews, briefings, exit conferences, and other oral communication in order to acquire or exchange information or facts needed to complete audit assignments or influence acceptance of audit findings; experience preparing and/or contributing to written reports, and consistently preparing working papers/summaries, and other documents in order to appropriately document findings and results. I do not meet the specialized experience as described above. 2 Please indicate all of the following degree(s) or certification(s) that you possess:&nbsp;(No points assessed &ndash; for informational use only) Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) Certified Government Financial Manager (CGFM) Grade: 13 1 GS-13: To qualify, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equal or equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the federal service. Choose the statement that best describes your experience related to the minimum basic requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 in the federal service. My qualifying specialized experience includes: Experience working as an audit team member or leader ensuring overall projects are accomplished within Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and other established guidelines and timelines; independently researching and planning audit engagements; experience interpreting governmental regulations, collecting and independently analyzing data, documenting findings, and making recommendations; independently conducting interviews, briefings, exit conferences, and other oral communication in order to acquire or exchange information or facts needed to complete audit assignments or influence acceptance of audit findings; preparing and/or contributing to written reports, and consistently preparing working papers/summaries, and other documents in order to appropriately document findings and results. I do not meet the specialized experience as described above. 2 Please indicate all of the following degree(s) or certification(s) that you possess:&nbsp;(No points assessed &ndash; for informational use only) Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) Certified Government Financial Manager (CGFM) Grade: All Grades 1 My performance (dated within 18 months) is at a satisfactory or above level (including pass/fail systems) and submitted with my application.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No If not, please include a statement of why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable. 1.1 Statement why appraisal/evaluation is unacceptable.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. I do not have a performance appraisal/evaluation and have included a statement as to why not. 1.1 Statement why performance appraisal/evaluation is not included.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. 2 [53374] I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant experience for this position (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. If I fail to provide this information, it may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 By responding yes to this question, you acknowledge that you have reviewed the Required Documents section of this announcement to determine which documents, if any, you need to provide in support of this application. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 All candidates for Auditor positions must meet one of the following basic qualification requirements: A. Degree: auditing; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration or accounting. OR B. Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: 1. A certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or 2.Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours. Answer to this question is required I meet the requirements set forth in (A) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B-1) above. I meet the requirements set forth in (B-2) above. I do not meet any of the choices above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 250 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 &nbsp; How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. &nbsp;&nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 &nbsp; In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President&rsquo;s Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired. &nbsp; Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Careers Home DOT Home Accessibility Privacy Policy Site Map This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).