Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-12 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-11 grade level, and will be at the GS-11 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-11 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-11 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-12 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-11 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-11. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Field Financial Administrator communicates with Central&nbsp;Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department&nbsp;heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel&nbsp;and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden,&nbsp;Deputy Assistant Director, General Managers, and FPI Controller.&nbsp; Other contacts include business managers and accountants at other UNICOR locations.&nbsp; In addition, interagency contacts with the&nbsp;Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accounting Office and other agencies and external audit firms are&nbsp;common in resolving problems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised General Managers and the Controller on operational and financial concerns/issues from a business group perspective; and/or I have provided guidance to staff on financial, cost and operational related issues; and/or I have answered and responded to inquiries from various sources such as institution, regional or Central Office staff. I have provided guidance to subordinates and/or others on processing work; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have responded to request for policy clarification and general information; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with factory managers or other department head. I have delivered Admissions and Orientation (A&O) lectures after an in-house training; and/or I have assisted co-workers with discussion topics related to general accounting procedure/function requirements; and/or I have discussed accounting issue with peers; and/or I have shared information with co-workers/peers in other departments. None of the above. 5 &nbsp;The Field Financial Administrator must write correspondence to Bureau of Prisons staff at various levels as well as governmental and non-governmental agencies.&nbsp; He/she writes reports, technical documentation, lesson plans, contractual correspondence, and memorandums.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared monthly financial and operational reports; and/or I have composed memorandum to other department heads; and/or I have prepared performance evaluations for subordinates. I have composed documents to area personnel about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written technical requirements for contracting; and/or I have prepared a memorandum recommending changes for the utilization of available resources; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals within the agency; and/or I have developed or updated policies or institution supplement; and/or I have prepared memorandum of understanding (MOU) narratives for submission to Central Office or equivalent for review; and/or I have prepared duty officer report or equivalent. I have assisted with composing correspondence to institution staff on financial related issues; and/or I have provided footnoted data on monthly financial reports; and/or I have composed debit memos to vendors. None of the above. 6 The Field Financial Administrator has direct responsibility for &nbsp; analysis of a business group operation, specifically in the areas&nbsp; of production performance and inventory evaluation, price&nbsp; structure and proposed future prices. &nbsp; He/she must identify any&nbsp; discrepancies and make recommendations regarding the best use of&nbsp; financial resources to the Associate Warden/Warden and Central&nbsp; Office.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted others in determining that financial reports were accurate; and/or I have compared similar financial data from multiple periods; and/or I have detected outlier data in general ledger balances. I have made overhead projections based on spending trends; and/or I have notified appropriate staff of production problems; and/or I have reviewed cost center plans to ensure they met budget restrictions; and/or I have analyzed overhead allocations over a period of time to determine if corrective measures were needed; and/or I have made suggestions that reduced expenses incurred; and/or I have monitored inventory levels and suggestions to improve inventory turnover rate. I have reviewed the financial amount of the general ledger to determine the validity of it; and/or I have analyzed monthly financial reports; and/or I have monitored staff and/or other payroll for unusual trends; and/or I have provided proposed guidance and information on financial trends. None of the above. 7 The Field Financial Administrator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have given subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within his or her area of expertise. I have served in an acting capacity for a supervisor; and/or I have managed staff or inmate workers without difficulties; and/or I have completed staff or inmate job evaluations; and/or I have suggested possible training opportunities for staff. I have reviewed established mandatory training log to ensure that deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate’s job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate(s); and/or I have communicated applicable information/updates to subordinates. None of the above. 8 The Field Financial Administrator is responsible for a complex accounting program which includes, but is not limited to Fund, Cost, Accrual, and Payroll Accounting for factories. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed income statements, cash flow and owner’s equity sheet; and/or I have made payments according to company policy; and/or I have consolidated financial records; and/or I have utilized data processing software and hardware equipment needed to accomplish and maintain the financial reporting and fund control; and/or I have maintained or managed general ledgers; and/or I have assisted in developing and monitoring a budget plan; and/or I have met with the subordinate accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues. I have reviewed subordinates work to determine if proper accounting entries were made; and/or I have processed accounts payable and receivable; and/or I have balanced bank records; and/or I have checked accounting reports to ensure transactions were made; and/or I have assisted with compiling budget requirements; and/or I have reconciled a subsidiary account to general ledger account. I have reviewed posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have reviewed the accuracy of recorded sales; and/or I have reviewed the validity for cost of sales records; and/or I have ensured proper valuation for inventory control; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new Department Heads/Cost Center Managers. None of the above. 9 The Field Financial Administrator communicates with Central&nbsp;Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department&nbsp;heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel&nbsp;and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden,&nbsp;Deputy Assistant Director, General Managers, and FPI Controller.&nbsp; Other contacts include business managers and accountants at other UNICOR locations.&nbsp; In addition, interagency contacts with the&nbsp;Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accounting Office and other agencies and external audit firms are&nbsp;common in resolving problems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised General Managers and the Controller on operational and financial concerns/issues from a business group perspective; and/or I have provided guidance to staff on financial, cost and operational related issues; and/or I have answered and responded to inquiries from various sources such as institution, regional or Central Office staff. I have provided guidance to subordinates and/or others on processing work; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have responded to request for policy clarification and general information; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with factory managers or other department head. I have delivered Admissions and Orientation (A&O) lectures after an in-house training; and/or I have assisted co-workers with discussion topics related to general accounting procedure/function requirements; and/or I have discussed accounting issue with peers; and/or I have shared information with co-workers/peers in other departments. None of the above. 10 The Field Financial Administrator must write correspondence to Bureau of Prisons staff at various levels as well as governmental and non-governmental agencies.&nbsp; He/she writes reports, technical documentation, lesson plans, contractual correspondence, and memorandums.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared monthly financial and operational reports; and/or I have composed memorandum to other department heads; and/or I have prepared performance evaluations for subordinates. I have composed documents to area personnel about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written technical requirements for contracting; and/or I have prepared a memorandum recommending changes for the utilization of available resources; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals within the agency; and/or I have developed or updated policies or institution supplement; and/or I have prepared memorandum of understanding (MOU) narratives for submission to Central Office or equivalent for review; and/or I have prepared duty officer report or equivalent. I have assisted with composing correspondence to institution staff on financial related issues; and/or I have provided footnoted data on monthly financial reports; and/or I have composed debit memos to vendors. None of the above. Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-13 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-13, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-13 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-13 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-13, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-13, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-12 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-13 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor for at least one year (of federal employees, not inmates); AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-13 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a civilian, federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Field Financial Administrator communicates with Central&nbsp;Office UNICOR, procurement and warehouse personnel, department&nbsp;heads, institution correctional staff, business office personnel&nbsp;and inmates, and institution executives such as the Warden,&nbsp;Deputy Assistant Director, General Managers, and FPI Controller.&nbsp; Other contacts include business managers and accountants at other UNICOR locations.&nbsp; In addition, interagency contacts with the&nbsp;Department of Treasury, General Services Administration, General Accounting Office and other agencies and external audit firms are&nbsp;common in resolving problems.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have advised General Managers and the Controller on operational and financial concerns/issues from a business group perspective; and/or I have provided guidance to staff on financial, cost and operational related issues; and/or I have answered and responded to inquiries from various sources such as institution, regional or Central Office staff. I have provided guidance to subordinates and/or others on processing work; and/or I have briefed supervisor on status of workload; and/or I have responded to request for policy clarification and general information; and/or I have discussed Business Office discrepancies/issues with factory managers or other department head. I have communicated with business group regarding specific operational indicators and external audit agencies/firms regarding operational and financial requirements; and/or I have, as a chairperson, guided an interagency workgroup in addressing or resolving a topic or issue; and/or I have presented a financial review to the Board of Directors or to corporate management; and/or I have met with managers in other departments to develop long range operational and budget plans. None of the above. 5 The Field Financial Administrator must write correspondence to Bureau of Prisons staff at various levels as well as governmental and non-governmental agencies.&nbsp; He/she writes reports, technical documentation, lesson plans, contractual correspondence, and memorandums.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared monthly financial and operational reports; and/or I have composed memorandum to other department heads; and/or I have prepared performance evaluations for subordinates. I have composed documents to area personnel about changes in operating policies or procedures; and/or I have written technical requirements for contracting; and/or I have prepared a memorandum recommending changes for the utilization of available resources; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals within the agency; and/or I have developed or updated policies or institution supplement; and/or I have prepared memorandum of understanding (MOU) narratives for submission to Central Office or equivalent for review; and/or I have prepared duty officer report or equivalent. I have written responses to audit findings; and/or I have drafted or updated national policies; and/or I have written lesson plans for national conferences; and/or I have written briefings for presentation to individuals outside the agency and assigned projects. None of the above. 6 The Field Financial Administrator has direct responsibility for &nbsp; analysis of a business group operation, specifically in the areas&nbsp; of production performance and inventory evaluation, price&nbsp; structure and proposed future prices. &nbsp; He/she must identify any&nbsp; discrepancies and make recommendations regarding the best use of&nbsp; financial resources to the Associate Warden/Warden and Central&nbsp; Office.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a cost saving initiative/plan/idea that was adopted by management; and/or I have prepared and presented price projections for the fiscal year to upper management, including Central Office; and/or I have projected operating levels for factories future years of sales, earnings, overhead, inventory levels and capital expenditures; and/or I have prepared budgets that became the basis for corporate case planning and capital funding decisions; and/or I have identified and resolved production issues/problems. I have made overhead projections based on spending trends; and/or I have notified appropriate staff of production problems; and/or I have reviewed cost center plans to ensure they met budget restrictions; and/or I have analyzed overhead allocations over a period of time to determine if corrective measures were needed; and/or I have made suggestions that reduced expenses incurred; and/or I have monitored inventory levels and suggestions to improve inventory turnover rate. I have reviewed the financial amount of the general ledger to determine the validity of it; and/or I have analyzed monthly financial reports; and/or I have monitored staff and/or other payroll for unusual trends; and/or I have provided proposed guidance and information on financial trends. None of the above. 7 The Field Financial Administrator must supervise and evaluate the performance of subordinates in various technical areas and provide opportunities for performance improvement and career enhancement. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have met with subordinates according to agency policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have given subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have maintained access for dialogue with subordinates on subjects within his or her area of expertise. I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established a plan for improvement with follow-up reviews; and/or I have developed and taught formal classes to staff related to factory operations; and/or I have reorganized staff duties, within a section, to effectively utilize individual strengths and weaknesses. I have reviewed established mandatory training log to ensure that deadlines were met by subordinates; and/or I have combined monthly department staff meetings with training sessions to improve subordinate’s job knowledge; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate(s); and/or I have communicated applicable information/updates to subordinates. None of the above. 8 The Field Financial Administrator is responsible for a complex accounting program which includes, but is not limited to Fund, Cost, Accrual, and Payroll Accounting for factories. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed income statements, cash flow and owner’s equity sheet; and/or I have made payments according to company policy; and/or I have consolidated financial records; and/or I have utilized data processing software and hardware equipment needed to accomplish and maintain the financial reporting and fund control; and/or I have maintained or managed general ledgers; and/or I have assisted in developing and monitoring a budget plan; and/or I have met with the subordinate accounting staff to resolve local/internal budget issues. I have applied general accepted accounting principles in all financial, cost and operational matters to ensure accurate financial statement reporting; and/or I have reviewed/analyzed complex financial and cost transactions, and financial and operational statements such as profit and loss statements, and managerial accounting reports; and/or I have researched and resolved critical accounting issues; and/or I have developed and monitored budget plan; and/or I have maintained an accounting system such as cost accounting and general ledger; and/or I have distinguished the difference between nominal (profit and loss) and real (balance) accounts. I have reviewed posted accounting data to general ledger accounts; and/or I have reviewed the accuracy of recorded sales; and/or I have reviewed the validity for cost of sales records; and/or I have ensured proper valuation for inventory control; and/or I have conducted local level Cost Center Manager and Fund Control Training classes to new Department Heads/Cost Center Managers. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).