Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in museum work; or in an applicable subject-matter field. I have appropriate combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major as shown 1. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I have four years of experience that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study as shown in 1. above. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 5 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 6 Which of the following best describes your experience being responsible for short and long-range program planning for exhibitions programs, minor and major reconfiguration of office and gallery space to address changing needs, and for advising senior management of budget and manpower resources required to carry out the development of exhibitions and public spaces? Answer to this question is required I have experience being responsible for short and long-range program planning for exhibitions programs, minor and major reconfiguration of office and gallery space to address changing needs, and for advising senior management of budget and manpower resources required to carry out the development of exhibitions and public spaces. I have experience being responsible for short and long-range program planning for exhibitions programs, minor and major reconfiguration of office and gallery space to address changing needs, and for advising senior management of budget and manpower resources. I have experience being responsible for short and long-range program planning for exhibitions programs, minor and major reconfiguration of office and gallery space to address changing needs. I have experience being responsible for short and long-range program planning for exhibitions programs and reconfiguration of office and gallery space. I have experience being responsible for short and long-range program planning for exhibitions programs. I do not have related experience. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience demonstrating your ability to oversee exhibition planning and development? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team in planning and developing a major exhibition. I have experience being responsible for the research and content development for exhibitions. I have experience being responsible for managing the budget and schedule for a major exhibition. I have experience having led evaluation for exhibition projects. I have experience being familiar with the principles and techniques of participatory exhibitions. I have performed no activities related to exhibition planning and development. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience communicating shifting priorities to affected staff members and assists with the assessment of impact on various projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience communicating shifting priorities to affected staff members and assists with the assessment of impact on various projects. I have experience communicating shifting priorities to affected staff members. I have experience communicating shifting priorities. I do not have related experience. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience overseeing exhibits operations to include managing a production shop, managing designers, and contents developers, as well as managing the unit's budget, administration, and personnel functions? Answer to this question is required I have experience overseeing exhibits operations to include managing a production shop, managing designers and contents developers, as well as managing the unit’s budget, administration, and personnel functions. I have experience overseeing exhibits operations to include managing a production shop and managing designers and contents developers. I have experience overseeing exhibits operations to include managing a production shop. None of the above. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience supervising the work designers (exhibits and graphics) and production staff including assigning and prioritizing work, recommending and approving training, and developing and rating performance plans? Answer to this question is required I have experience supervising the work designers (exhibits and graphics) and production staff including assigning and prioritizing work, recommending and approving training, and developing and rating performance plans. I have experience supervising the work designers (exhibits and graphics) and production staff including assigning and prioritizing work, and recommending and approving training. I have experience supervising the work designers (exhibits and graphics) and production staff including assigning and prioritizing work. I have experience supervising the work designers (exhibits and graphics) and production staff. I have experience supervising. I do not have related experience. 11 Do you have experience supervising staff in a museum exhibitions department or similar setting? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Which of the following describes your experience in supervising one or more employees? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience supervising multiple employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have some experience supervising employees including developing individual training plans, writing performance awards, monitoring employee progress, and providing feedback sessions. I have experience supervising employees including scheduling work assignments and monitoring employee progress. I have been trained in supervision but do not have any experience in this area. I do not have training or experience in this area. 13 Which of the following best describes your experience in managing projects? Answer to this question is required I have coordinated/managed small or medium projects involving exhibitions or other museum initiatives. I have worked on a team managing long-term projects involving exhibitions or other museum initiatives. I have training in project coordination/management. I have no experience with project coordination/management. 14 Which of the following describes your experience in developing and coordinating multiple projects within an established timeframe? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without close review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision and input from a supervisor and/or senior employee. I have education and training in project coordination in a cultural institution, but have not performed this task on the job I have not had education, training or experience in project coordination. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.