Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). 3.1 Please select the special hiring authority under which you are requesting consideration. Veterans` Employment Opportunities Act 30% or More Disabled Veterans NOTE: This vacancy is not open to special hiring authority for 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under this special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. NOTE: In order to receive consideration, you MUST provide ALL supporting documentation, as stated in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT by the closing date and time of the vacancy. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, FSA Programs, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she communicates with senior executives throughout the Bureau of Prisons on First Step Act (FSA) programs, as well as with others in the U.S. District Courts, U.S. Probation Offices, state agencies and institutions, U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. Marshals Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and various other agencies and divisions of the Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding a wide-range of First Step Act (FSA) related activities.&nbsp; The Chief provides national directives to institution, Region and Central Office staff pertaining to the management of inmates committed under the care of the Federal Prisons System.&nbsp; He/she provides guidance on incentive structures that promote inmate engagement in programming. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented at regional conferences on First Step Act (FSA) policy updates; and/or I have briefed Executive Staff on needs assessment protocols; and/or I have led quarterly review meetings with institutional leadership to address program deficiencies; and/or I have conducted on-site consultations with institutions experiencing First Step Act (FSA) implementation challenges; and/or I have responded to field inquiries on incentive eligibility criteria. I have participated on a work group which included members of senior executives internal to the agency/organization or other agencies regarding re-entry initiatives; and/or I have assisted in representing an agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have given formal presentations to senior executives/top management of an agency/organization. I have facilitated training sessions/presentations for senior executive employees; and/or I have briefed Attorney General staff on First Step Act (FSA) compliance metrics; and/or I have conducted quarterly all-staff webinars on First Step Act (FSA) implementation updates; and/or I have explained First Step Act (FSA) program evaluation methodologies to Congressional oversight committees; and/or I have briefed federal judges on agency policies affecting sentencing and release; and/or I have addressed public forums on inmate programming and reentry outcomes. I have attended weekly unit team meetings to discuss inmate program assignments; and/or I have contributed to case management discussions regarding program suitability; and/or I have participated in multi-disciplinary team meetings addressing inmate behavioral progress; and/or I have briefed supervisors on program enrollment trends. I have conducted peer training on documentation standards for program records; and/or I have provided orientation to new staff on institutional program offerings; and/or I have clarified First Step Act (FSA) eligibility criteria for correctional workers; and/or I have communicated program-related issues, concerns, or recommendations to supervisors or program administrators during routine reporting or feedback sessions. None of the above. 5 The Chief, FSA Programs, prepares reports, briefings and recommendations for senior leadership related to First Step Act (FSA) program effectiveness and statutory compliance. He/she is responsible for developing policy for programs in correctional facilities. The Chief, FSA Programs, must possess comprehensive written communication skills to effectively communicate information to targeted audiences, as the information may impact national programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have documented inmate progress in evidence-based programs; and/or I have written case summaries for parole or release planning purposes; and/or I have completed risk and needs assessment instruments; and/or I have prepared monthly program enrollment reports; and/or I have documented earned time credits in inmate records; and/or I have drafted standard operating procedures for program enrollment processes; and/or I have updated local guidelines on program waitlist management. I have developed policy guidance on earned time credit calculations; and/or I have written operational directives on incentive structures for program participation; and/or I have authored change notices updating First Step Act (FSA) compliance requirements; and/or I have written annual First Step Act (FSA) implementation reports for the Attorney General. I have prepared Congressional testimony on recidivism reduction program outcomes; and/or I have authored white papers analyzing evidence-based program efficacy; and/or I have developed briefing materials on First Step Act (FSA) compliance status; and/or I have written training curricula for First Step Act (FSA) Program Coordinators; and/or I have prepared frequently asked questions documents addressing complex policy scenarios. I have written quarterly reports summarizing institutional First Step Act (FSA) compliance rates; and/or I have prepared responses to field questions on earned time credit calculations; and/or I have authored technical bulletins addressing common implementation errors; and/or I have authored corrective action plans for institutions failing to meet First Step Act (FSA) standards; and/or I have developed process improvement recommendations to enhance needs assessment efficiency. None of the above. 6 The Chief, FSA Programs, oversees the development, delivery, and evaluation of First Step Act (FSA) related training for Central Office, Regional Office, and institution staff. He/she has full supervisory authority over subordinate staff, including assigning work, setting priorities, evaluating performance and recommending personnel actions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted performance appraisals using established competency frameworks; and/or I have recommended promotions, reassignments, or separations; and/or I have developed succession plans for key leadership positions; and/or I have reorganized divisions to improve efficiency and span of control; and/or I have coordinated with Human Resources on recruitment strategies for specialized positions; and/or I have implemented mentoring programs and paired experienced staff with new personnel; and/or I have implemented performance metrics to track responsiveness to field technical assistance requests. I have mentored new staff on inmate assessment protocols; and/or I have provided on-the-job training to staff on program documentation requirements; and/or I have assisted colleagues in interpreting complex policy guidance; and/or I have reviewed colleagues case documentation and suggested improvements; and/or I have provided feedback on training presentations delivered by peers; and/or I have provided orientation to new employees on program operations and organizational culture; and/or I have served as a peer mentor during new employee probationary periods. I have supervised subordinates who conducted institutional compliance reviews; and/or I have managed Program Coordinators overseeing evidence-based program implementation; and/or I have directed support staff responsible for maintaining databases and tracking systems; and/or I have held regular one-on-one meetings with subordinates to discuss performance and career development; and/or I have identified skill gaps and recommended training opportunities; and/or I have provided constructive feedback to improve written and oral communication skills of subordinates. None of the above. 7 The Chief, FSA Programs, ensures First Step Act (FSA) programs are operationally feasible within correctional environments, appropriately resourced, and aligned with institutional security, staffing, and population management considerations. He/she must have a thorough knowledge of federal correctional operations, inmate management, custody and release processes, and institutional programming. The Chief, FSA Programs, must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of the mission and goals of the Bureau of Prisons. He/she must have knowledge of the variety of institutions, inmate populations and problems presented by the various combinations to direct and evaluate operating programs in the field. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have coordinated with other divisions on cross-functional initiatives affecting inmate programming; and/or I have leveraged regional resources to support institutional training needs; and/or I have considered security staffing limitations when establishing program capacity targets; and/or I have accounted for facility physical plant limitations in program space allocation; and/or I have coordinated with others on identifying appropriate program assignments; and/or I have aligned First Step Act (FSA) program standards with accreditation requirements. I have applied thorough knowledge of agency mission, strategic priorities, organizational structure, and the roles of others to align program policies with operational realities and institutional security requirements; and/or I have aligned First Step Act (FSA) initiatives with agency strategic goals on recidivism reduction and public safety; and/or I have coordinated with other divisions to integrate First Step Act (FSA) requirements into institutional operations. I have coordinated with appropriate departments when program issues arose; and/or I have communicated through proper channels on program-related matters; and/or I have considered security levels when recommending program placements; and/or I have ensured program assignments were consistent with individual case management plans; and/or I have supported institutional accreditation efforts through compliant program operations. I have tailored First Step Act (FSA) program offerings to address unique needs of female offenders, sex offenders, or inmates with mental health issues; and/or I have addressed operational constraints in special management units when implementing evidence-based programming; and/or I have conducted operational impact assessments before implementing new requirements; and/or I have consulted with senior leadership and others on resource needs for program expansion; and/or I have balanced statutory compliance obligations with operational capacity constraints; and/or I have designed phased implementation plans to minimize disruption to operations. None of the above. 8 The Chief, FSA Programs, evaluates First Step Act (FSA) program effectiveness and inmate participating outcomes as they relate to behavior, institutional safety, and preparation for release. He/she oversees the development, delivery, and evaluation of First Step Act (FSA) related training. The Chief, FSA Programs, identifies systemic issues, trends, and risks related to assessment outcomes and recommends corrective action or policy enhancements. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have established performance targets for recidivism reduction aligned with statutory goals; and/or I have coordinated strategic planning sessions with senior leadership to set programmatic priorities; and/or I have created phased implementation roadmaps for new evidence-based program rollouts. I have established key performance indicators measuring program completion rates, behavioral improvements, and recidivism outcomes; and/or I have identified trends in earned time credit calculations requiring policy clarification; and/or I have evaluated patterns in program completion rates to inform program design improvements. I have developed monthly program schedules accommodating institutional operations and inmate availability; and/or I have planned curriculum delivery sequences for evidence-based programs; and/or I have scheduled program orientations and completion ceremonies; and/or I have maintained attendance records for program participants. I have evaluated institutional compliance with First Step Act (FSA) needs assessment timelines; and/or I have assessed quality and accuracy of risk assessment administration across multiple institutions; and/or I have analyzed program completion rates and identified factors contributing to successful outcomes. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).