Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of the rules and regulations related to human resources compensation, personnel processing, benefits and leave in the Federal Service. ** Provided advice, guidance, and expertise for compensation rules and regulations in the following areas: 1) pay administration and compensation, 2) personnel and payroll processing, 3) benefits and 4) leave administration. Answer to this question is required As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, interpreted, evaluated, and provided expert guidance on ALL areas of Federal human resources laws, regulations, policies, and procedures. Served as the agency's technical authority for HR processing. As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, interpreted, evaluated, and provided guidance on THREE (3) areas of Federal rules, regulations, and policies. As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, interpreted, evaluated, and provided guidance on TWO (2) areas of Federal rules, regulations, and policies. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of Leave Program Administration and Payroll Reconciliation. ** Applied knowledge of leave program administration and payroll reconciliation processes to perform work. This includes the interpretation and application of federal laws, regulations, agency policies, and collective bargaining agreements governing employee leave and pay. Extensive experience administering complex leave programs, such as 1) annual leave, 2) sick leave, 3) Family and Medical Leave (FMLA), 4) leave without pay (LWOP), 5) workers' compensation, and 6) other special leave categories while ensuring compliance with applicable guidance. Answer to this question is required As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, interpreted, evaluated, and applied ALL aspects of Federal laws, regulations, agency policies, and collective bargaining agreements governing leave administration and payroll reconciliation. Independently administered ALL major leave programs, including annual leave, sick leave, Family and Medical Leave (FMLA), leave without pay (LWOP), workers' compensation, and other special leave categories. Served as the technical authority by providing expert guidance, resolving complex leave and payroll issues, and ensuring compliance with all applicable requirements. As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, interpreted, evaluated, and applied Federal laws, regulations, agency policies, and collective bargaining agreements governing leave administration and payroll reconciliation. Independently administered FIVE (5) major leave programs, such as annual leave, sick leave, Family and Medical Leave (FMLA), leave without pay (LWOP), workers' compensation, or other special leave categories, while providing guidance and ensuring compliance with applicable requirements. As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, interpreted, and applied Federal laws, regulations, agency policies, and collective bargaining agreements governing leave administration and payroll reconciliation. Administered FOUR (4) major leave programs, such as annual leave, sick leave, Family and Medical Leave (FMLA), leave without pay (LWOP), workers' compensation, or other special leave categories, while ensuring compliance with established policies and procedures. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to reconcile payroll and leave records. ** Demonstrated ability to reconcile payroll and leave records by identifying discrepancies, researching root causes, and coordinating corrective actions with payroll providers, human resources offices, timekeepers, and supervisors. These include: 1) auditing payroll transactions, 2) validating time and attendance records, 3) analyzing leave balances, 4) resolving overpayments and underpayments, and 5) ensuring the accuracy of personnel and payroll data. Answer to this question is required As a Human Resources Specialist, independently reviewed, analyzed, reconciled, and resolved complex payroll and leave discrepancies involving ALL of the following activities: 1) auditing payroll transactions, 2) validating time and attendance records, 3) analyzing leave balances, 4) resolving overpayments and underpayments, and 5) ensuring the accuracy of personnel and payroll data. Served as the technical authority, conducted extensive research to determine root causes, coordinated corrective actions with payroll providers, and provided expert guidance to ensure compliance with Federal laws, regulations, policies, and procedures. As a Human Resources Specialist, independently reviewed, analyzed, reconciled, and resolved payroll and leave discrepancies involving FOUR (4) of the following activities: 1) auditing payroll transactions, 2) validating time and attendance records, 3) analyzing leave balances, 4) resolving overpayments and underpayments, and 5) ensuring the accuracy of personnel and payroll data. Coordinated with payroll providers, human resources offices, timekeepers, and supervisors to research issues, implement corrective actions, and ensure compliance with established policies and procedures. As a Human Resources Specialist, reviewed, analyzed, reconciled, and resolved payroll and leave discrepancies involving THREE (3) of the following areas: 1) auditing payroll transactions, 2) validating time and attendance records, 3) analyzing leave balances, 4) resolving overpayments and underpayments, and 5) ensuring the accuracy of personnel and payroll data. Performed routine research, coordinated corrective actions with appropriate stakeholders, and ensured payroll and leave records were accurate and in accordance with established Federal policies and procedures. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to research and analyze human resources rules and regulations to provide advice and assistance. ** Researched and analyzed various human resources rules and regulations to render advice and assistance. This includes: 1) federal regulations and rules, 2) agency regulations and guidelines, 3) payroll and personnel directives, 4) bargaining unit contracts and agreements, 5) policies and procedures. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently researched, analyzed, interpreted, and applied ALL of the above Federal human resources rules, regulations, directives, agreements, policies, and procedures to resolve complex or unusual issues, provide authoritative guidance to staff and management and develop recommendations affecting agency operations. As a primary job responsibility, researched, analyzed, interpreted, and applied THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above Federal human resources rules, regulations, directives, agreements, policies, and procedures to provide advice and assistance on a variety of personnel actions and issues. As one of the job responsibilities, researched, analyzed, interpreted, and applied ONE (1) or TWO (2) of the above Federal human resources rules, regulations, directives, agreements, policies, and procedures to provide advice and assistance on routine personnel actions and issues. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of automated personnel and payroll data systems. ** Applied knowledge of automated personnel/payroll systems in order to process and correct personnel and payroll actions such as: 1) payroll systems (e.g., NFC, EPIC, PMSO, and SPPS), 2) web-based timekeeping systems (e.g., GovTA), and 3) human resources information systems (e.g., EmpowHR, PeopleSoft, SBM). Answer to this question is required Demonstrated extensive experience using ALL of the above automated human resources systems and software applications to process and correct personnel and payroll data. Demonstrated extensive experience using TWO (2) automated human resources systems and software applications to process and correct personnel and payroll data. Demonstrated experience using ONE (1) automated human resources system and software application to process and correct personnel and payroll data. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to provide customer service. Provided customer service by creating an environment in which a positive and professional service orientation is evident to customers by 1) providing timely and accurate guidance, 2) maintaining professionalism even in contentious situations, 3) meeting commitments to customers on time and keeping them informed, 4) seeking and using customer feedback, and 5) handling complaints effectively. Answer to this question is required As the primary contact in an HR ENVIRONMENT, assessed customer needs and independently handled complex and challenging situations for resolution in ALL of the activities listed above. As the primary contact in an HR ENVIRONMENT, assessed customer needs and resolved issues under the guidance of a higher-graded HR specialist. In doing so, perform FOUR (4) key HR functional areas above. As the primary contact in an HR ENVIRONMENT, assessed customer needs and resolved issues under the guidance of a higher-graded HR specialist. In doing so, perform THREE (3) key HR functional areas above. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared clear, accurate, and understandable written text in English following the basic tenets of composition and analysis, including: 1) reports, 2) memos, 3) presentations, and 4) emails to document work status, provide information and promote new programs or processes. Answer to this question is required Composed ALL of the above documents for dissemination inside and outside the agency to explain, justify, request or discuss HR policies, decisions, or actions. Composed AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above documents for dissemination inside and outside the agency to explain, justify, request or discuss HR policies, decisions, or actions. Composed AT LEAST TWO (2) including numbers 1 and 4 of the above documents for dissemination inside and/or outside the agency to explain, justify, request or discuss HR policies, decisions, or actions. None of the Above. 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).