Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position. OR B. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include: Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements. Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans. Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system. Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance. Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action. Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods. Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities. Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals. Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Quality Assurance Managers are responsible for the local quality management system in a UNICOR factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have updated/maintained quality assurance system documentation; and/or I have provided data analysis to detect trends; and/or I have identified root causes of problems and provided recommended corrective actions; and/or I have resolved customer complaints. I have reviewed and updated system documentation, including procedures and instructions; and/or I have coordinated and managed internal audits of a system; and/or I have incorporated approved changes to a system. I have removed unacceptable products from the production line in an assigned work center; and/or I have ensured products were produced in accordance with production specifications; and/or I have followed testing procedures when required by the customer. None of the above. 4 Quality Assurance Managers must have the ability to effectively communicate with other agencies, departments, senior management and staff, customers and vendors, through the use of written communication and the preparation of technical reports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed internal e-mails/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have developed quality assurance familiarization training for personnel; and/or I have established a format for consistent reporting on factory production related issues. I have assisted in the development of internal e-mails/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have assisted others in developing presentations for quality assurance familiarization training to new staff; and/or I have received informal training from management on how to write a technical report. I have drafted routine responses to customer inquiries for management review/reply; and/or I have documented reasons to management for staff/inmate departures from Federal Prisons Industries or employment; and/or I have prepared portions of quality assurance documentation for internal review processes. None of the above. 5 The Quality Assurance Manager interacts with and manages inmate and staff resources to achieve quality and business objectives. &nbsp;He/she also interacts directly with customers. The customers may refer to the Quality Assurance Manager to his/her technical representatives, or his/her Quality Assurance Manager to ensure a satisfactory product is produced. &nbsp;Daily interaction and a good working relationship with customer staff and factory staff are necessary in ensuring customer satisfaction with products produced. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have recommended rejection of parts already produced from production line; and/or I have identified and reported process problems to the supervisor; and/or I have notified management or supervisors of inspection problems with raw materials. I have ensured that guidelines for quality management of products produced were followed by staff; and/or I have addressed problems identified in the production process and reported them to a supervisor; and/or I have identified problems with incoming raw materials and reported them to the supervisor. I have led resources to identify and recommend a solution to resolve a production process problem; and/or I have worked with others and made a recommendation for supervisor approval to correct a product/standard requirement; and/or I have interacted with a customer or vendor to recommend a solution to a supervisor for a material related problem. None of the above. 6 Quality Assurance Managers are responsible for establishing requirements, collecting and analyzing data, and recommending and incorporating improvements for a quality assurance program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in collecting and reporting quality data to a member of quality assurance management; and/or I have assisted in providing input that was utilized for a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have received informal training relating to establishing requirements, or collecting and analyzing data; and/or I have assisted in the development of a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements within a factory; and/or I have participated in a process improvement work group that provided a cost reduction or process improvement to a factory’s operation. I have utilized a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have collected customer contract quality data for reporting to program management for monthly reports; and/or I have analyzed data collected to determine trends that may be associated with various work centers within the factory; and/or I have led a process improvement project that resulted in increased quality, decreased production time, or reduced manufacturing cost. I have used a micrometer to measure parts to ensure they were correctly sized after final production; and/or I have used pre-set gauges at various intervals of production to ensure part size produced was correct; and/or I have used pre-determined template for measurement of product produced. None of the above. 7 Quality Assurance Managers must be knowledgeable about the organization, product, functions and processes of an industrial operation to effectively manage its quality program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written and/or approved a work instruction handbook; and/or I have conducted internal audits; and/or I have as a result of production problems, recommended changes to improve and/or resolve material or design problems; and/or I have recommended changes to improve and/or resolve raw material defects; and/or I have recommended changes to product design for a product in production. I have used factory equipment to manufacture parts; and/or I have made recommendations to work center manufacturing processes to management to improve efficiency; and/or I have recommended modifications to existing equipment to improve quality of output. I have implemented changes recommended by supervisor in a production process; and/or I have participated in audits under the guidance of supervisor; and/or I have participated in formal training related to SAP and federal industries production processes or the quality assurance program; and/or I have organized a tool room or work center for more efficient manufacturing. None of the above. 8 The Quality Assurance Manager must effectively interact with departmental managers, staff, inmates and outside resources (i.e., other agencies, customers and vendors), in order to ensure successful operations within the quality environment. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, senior management, the Product Support Center, customers and vendors, on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared memorandum to supervisor containing recurring monthly quality assurance data; and/or I have attended quality meetings as required by the supervisor; and/or I have directed staff/inmates in preparation of quality reports. I have facilitated communication concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment; and/or I have instructed others on routine information related to quality production; and/or I have assisted quality assurance management in establishing and maintaining an effective working environment with other agencies/organizations/customers. I have assisted in facilitating communication, concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment to resolve issues; and/or I have assisted others in providing information related to quality production; and/or I have provided input to quality assurance management that was utilized in establishing and maintaining a working environment with others. None of the above. 9 Quality Assurance Managers are responsible for developing and conducting formal quality assurance training, facilitating internal and external meetings, and for developing, organizing and making formal presentations/negotiations on quality assurance or related functions and issues. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a leader of a team; and/or I have provided updates to existing instructional materials; and/or I have taught basic inspection courses in a formal classroom. I have assisted others with the preparation of instructional materials; and/or I have assisted team leader or supervisor in formal presentations; and/or I have reviewed and updated existing training materials. I have developed quality assurance work instructions/presentation materials for staff; and/or I have trained new quality assurance staff; and/or I have coordinated monthly departmental meetings with staff; and/or I have developed and delivered briefings and presentations on internal problems encountered and opportunities to gain improvement. None of the above. Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position. OR B. Experience: Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include: Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements. Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans. Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system. Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance. Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action. Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods. Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities. Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals. Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. 2 In addition to the minimum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Quality Assurance Managers are responsible for the local quality management system in a UNICOR factory. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a system documentation that was compliant with requirements; and/or I have received recognition of system acceptance by a customer or third party audit; and/or I have conducted internal audits of the quality system and made formal recommendations for improvement. I have updated/maintained quality assurance system documentation; and/or I have provided data analysis to detect trends; and/or I have identified root causes of problems and provided recommended corrective actions; and/or I have resolved customer complaints. I have reviewed and updated system documentation, including procedures and instructions; and/or I have coordinated and managed internal audits of a system; and/or I have incorporated approved changes to a system. None of the above. 4 Quality Assurance Managers must have the ability to effectively communicate with other agencies, departments, senior management and staff, customers and vendors, through the use of written communication and the preparation of technical reports. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have assisted in the development of internal e-mails/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have assisted others in developing presentations for quality assurance familiarization training to new staff; and/or I have received informal training from management on how to write a technical report. I have developed internal e-mails/memorandums that coordinated quality concerns with others; and/or I have developed quality assurance familiarization training for personnel; and/or I have established a format for consistent reporting on factory production related issues. I have developed formal memorandums/correspondence that informed customer/vendor of technical data discrepancies; and/or I have developed non-conforming material reports that reported defective vendor materials; and/or I have developed formal e-mails to customers which requested clarification of incomplete/conflicting technical data. None of the above. 5 The Quality Assurance Manager interacts with and manages inmate and staff resources to achieve quality and business objectives. &nbsp; He/she also interacts directly with customers. The customers may refer to the Quality Assurance Manager to his/her technical representatives, or his/her Quality Assurance Manager to ensure a satisfactory product is produced. &nbsp; Daily interaction and a good working relationship with customer staff and factory staff are necessary in ensuring customer satisfaction with products produced. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led resources to identify and recommend a solution to resolve a production process problem; and/or I have worked with others and made a recommendation for supervisor approval to correct a product/standard requirement; and/or I have interacted with a customer or vendor to recommend a solution to a supervisor for a material related problem. I have interacted with customers to resolve non-compliant third party audit issues; and/or I have interacted with customers to resolve product problems based on defective vendor supplied products; and/or I have received, analyzed, and resolved customer complaints; and/or I have developed responses to quality-related issues in business proposals. I have ensured that guidelines for quality management of products produced were followed by staff; and/or I have addressed problems identified in the production process and reported them to a supervisor; and/or I have identified problems with incoming raw materials and reported them to the supervisor. None of the above. 6 Quality Assurance Managers are responsible for establishing requirements, collecting and analyzing data, and recommending and incorporating improvements for a quality assurance programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served as a member of a quality improvement team; and/or I have served on a quality audit team; and/or I have prepared monthly reports for a factory; and/or I have analyzed data and provided recommendations for improvement to the factory and program management, and solicited customer feedback on products produced; and/or I have interacted with customers to ensure that all warranty related issues were resolved in the event a product/service did not meet the customer’s expectations; and/or I have per technical specifications, replaced a product per the customer’s specifications and ensured corrections were made within the factory to ensure future products were correctly produced. I have assisted in collecting and reporting quality data to a member of quality assurance management; and/or I have assisted in providing input that was utilized for a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have received informal training relating to establishing requirements, or collecting and analyzing data; and/or I have assisted in the development of a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements within a factory; and/or I have participated in a process improvement work group that provided a cost reduction or process improvement to a factory’s operation. I have utilized a suggestion program to recommend quality improvements; and/or I have collected customer contract quality data for reporting to program management for monthly reports; and/or I have analyzed data collected to determine trends that may be associated with various work centers within the factory; and/or I have led a process improvement project that resulted in increased quality, decreased production time, or reduced manufacturing cost. None of the above. 7 Quality Assurance Managers must be knowledgeable about the organization, product, functions and processes of an industrial operation to effectively manage its quality program . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have implemented changes recommended by supervisor in a production process; and/or I have participated in audits under the guidance of supervisor; and/or I have participated in formal training related to SAP and federal industries production processes or the quality assurance program; and/or I have organized a tool room or work center for more efficient manufacturing. I have used SAP to extract reporting data; and/or I have used data to compile reports for corporate and program management; and/or I have analyzed production data to pin-point where a production error may have occurred within the factory; and/or I have used data and knowledge of the production process to make corrections to the process, and to set up and revise quality assurance procedures within the factory. I have written and/or approved a work instruction handbook; and/or I have conducted internal audits; and/or I have as a result of production problems, recommended changes to improve and/or resolve material or design problems; and/or I have recommended changes to improve and/or resolve raw material defects; and/or I have recommended changes to product design for a product in production. None of the above. 8 Quality Assurance Managers must effectively interact with departmental managers, staff, inmates and outside resources (i.e .,other agencies, customers and vendors), in order to ensure successful operations within the quality environment . They must also possess the ability to effectively coordinate actions with other departments, senior management, the Product Support Center, customers and vendors, on a regular and recurring basis. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have facilitated communication concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment; and/or I have instructed others on routine information related to quality production; and/or I have assisted quality assurance management in establishing and maintaining an effective working environment with other agencies/organizations/customers. I have assisted in facilitating communication, concerning quality, within a manufacturing environment to resolve issues; and/or I have assisted others in providing information related to quality production; and/or I have provided input to quality assurance management that was utilized in establishing and maintaining a working environment with others. I have held regular departmental meetings with staff regarding production status of a facility; and/or I have exchanged information with other production organizations, customers and/or vendors; and/or I have provided technical information to staff/inmates; and/or I have provided information on monthly reports to corporate management. None of the above. 9 Quality Assurance Managers are responsible for developing and conducting formal quality assurance training, facilitating internal and external meetings, and for developing, organizing and making formal presentations/negotiations on quality assurance or related functions and issues . From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed and presented quality assurance orientation training to agency management; and/or I have facilitated internal corrective and preventative action meetings; and/or I have presented information to management during monthly operations meetings; and/or I have resolved customer complaints; and/or I have resolved vendor discrepant material problems with vendor and purchasing. I have developed quality assurance work instructions/presentation materials for staff; and/or I have trained new quality assurance staff; and/or I have coordinated monthly departmental meetings with staff; and/or I have developed and delivered briefings and presentations on internal problems encountered and opportunities to gain improvement. I have served as a leader of a team on a program review; and/or I have provided updates to existing instructional materials; and/or I have taught basic inspection courses in a formal classroom. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).