Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Communications Commission Federal Communications Commission Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Toggle navigation Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I qualify for the GS-1099-9 Public Affairs (Pathways Intern) position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required Education: I am actively enrolled in a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree program. Specialized Experience: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: 1. Experience drafting communications for internal and/or external audiences including press releases, talking points, web and/or social media content. 2. Experience reviewing, proofreading, editing, revising and proofreading informational material. 3. Experience assisting with media engagement activities. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. 2 I qualify for the GS-1099-11 Public Affairs (Pathways Intern) position by virtue of: Answer to this question is required Education: I am actively in enrolled in a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree program. Specialized Experience: Candidates must have one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: 1. Experience drafting communications for internal and/or external audiences including press releases, talking points, web and/or social media content. 2. Experience reviewing, proofreading, editing, revising and proofreading informational material. 3. Experience assisting with media engagement activities. 4. Experience developing and disseminating information to key stakeholders using a full range of media and communication methods. A combination of both education and experience. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement. Internships Attorney Honors Program The Rating Process This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).