Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 07 Specialized experience is experience performing routine or developmental contracting assignments such as monitoring contractor performance for compliance with contract requirements, planning or carrying-out pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions, and resolving common procurement-related issues or problems. 1 In addition to meeting the basic requirements you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 in the federal service as defined above and/or you must meet the required education requirements for GS-07. Select one choice that best describes your experience or education Answer to this question is required I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-05 level as described above. I have 1 year of full-time graduate level education in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I have a combination of graduate education in one or a combination of the fields listed above and specialized experience that when combined together qualify me for this position. I have a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university AND I was in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. I have a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university AND my GPA was at least 3.0 out of a possible 4.0 as recorded in my official transcript or based on 4 yrs. of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 yrs. of the curriculum. GPA?s are to be rounded to 1 decimal place. I have a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university AND My GPA was 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses in my major field of study or the required courses in my major field completed during the final 2 yrs. of curriculum. (GPA can be rounded to 1 decimal place). I have a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university AND I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society as listed in the Association of College Honor Societies or the Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities (Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used). I do not meet any of the requirements described above. 2 You must meet the basic education/experience requirements for contract specialist positions in the federal government. Choose one answer which best describes your experience/educational background for a contract specialist position. Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor`s degree with a major in any field. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. On January 1, 2000 I held a position in the federal service in the GS-1102 series & my position was at one of the following grade levels: GS-5, GS-7, GS-9, GS-11, or GS-12. I have continually held this occupational series since January 1, 2000. I do not meet or exceed the requirements set forth above. Grade: 09 1 You must meet the basic education/experience requirements for contract specialist positions in the federal government. Choose one answer which best describes your experience/education background for a contract specialist position. Answer to this question is required I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor`s degree with a major in any field. I have completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. On January 1, 2000 I held a position in the federal service in the GS-1102AX series & my position was at one of the following grade levels: GS-5, GS-7, GS-9, GS-11, or GS-12. I have continually held this occupational series since January 1, 2000. I do not meet or exceed the requirements set forth above. 2 In addition to meeting the basic requirements you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service as defined above that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position and/or you must meet the required educational requirements for the GS-09. Select one choice that best describes your experience and/or education. Answer to this question is required I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-07 level as described above. I have earned a Master's (or equivalent graduate degree) or I have completed 2 years of progressively higher graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent degree. To be creditable, graduate education must be in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience that when combined together qualify me for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements set forth above. Specialized experience is defined as experience performing the full range of well defined and well precedented routine and developmental contracting assignments. Procurement at this level include: Determine appropriate contract vehicles (i.e. purchase orders, blanket purchase agreements, etc...) to plan and carry out acquisition actions; Evaluating vendor offers for responsiveness; Identifying excessive or underestimated prices and negotiates prices; Responding to and resolving common acquisition issues/questions. Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: The system has a navigation bar at the top of the each screen. Proceed through each step, providing any required information and documents until you reach the "Application Review" screen. To submit your application, you must select the "Submit Application" button at the bottom of the page or your application will be considered incomplete and you will not be considered for this vacancy. You may return to your application to make any changes or edits at any time prior to midnight Eastern Time of the closing or deadline of the announcement. If you make any changes to your application, be sure to navigate back through the steps and select the "Submit" button on the "Application Review" screen. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the "Confirmation Page" where you can download all or part of your application, return to USAJOBS or GSA's dashboard. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact mgshelp@monster.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).