Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Are you a journey level Sheet Metal Mechanic? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you led a team of workers performing sheet metal tasks? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 To what extent does your experience demonstrate your ability to do the work of the Sheet Metal Mechanic (Roofing) at the journey level without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required I perform the full range of tasks at the journey level. I select most appropriate materials and methods to assemble components, lay out and install. I plan my work, sequences, select the proper tools and equipment, and carry out assignments through to completion. My work is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I perform tasks at the journey level. I follow specified written or oral instructions. I am able to use common tools of the roofing trade and apply standard fabrication, installation, or repair techniques of roofing components. My work is monitored and reviewed before closing out work orders. I have assisted Roofers and Roofer Workers, and served as a laborer or helper in performing assigned tasks by the supervisor or higher level employee. I do not have experience as a Roofer. 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience supervising and or leading employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks? Answer to this question is required I have supervised and evaluated the work of employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks to ensure proper completion. I have reviewed the work of employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks to ensure proper completion as a team leader. I have provided hands-on instruction or demonstrations to employees performing sheet metal fabrication tasks. I have assisted co-workers by clarifying instructions. None of the above. 6 Which techniques have you used to assemble or construct metal objects? Answer to this question is required Screwing Bolting Riveting Seaming Tacking Soldering Welding None of the above 7 To what extent does your experience demonstrate your ability to do the work of the Sheet Metal Mechanic at the journey level without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required I perform the full range of tasks at the journey level. I develop sheet metal patterns, selects most appropriate materials and methods to fabricate and assemble components, lay out, cut form, join, assemble, install components, and checks for leaks. I plan my work, sequences, select the proper tools and equipment, and carry out assignments through to completion. My work is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I perform tasks at the journey level. I follow specified written or oral instructions. I am able to use common tools of the Sheet Metal trade and apply standard fabrication, installation, or repair techniques of duct systems of sheet metal components. My work is monitored and reviewed before closing out work orders. I have assisted Sheet Metal Mechanics and Workers, and served as a laborer or helper in performing assigned tasks by the supervisor or higher level employee I do not have experience as a Sheet Metal Mechanic 8 Do you have experience creating patterns for sheet metal objects with irregular or ornamental shapes? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience cutting pieces from metal sheeting. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience cutting metal pieces from metal sheeting. I have cut metal pieces from metal sheeting according to the marks made by others. I have independently measured, marked, and cut metal pieces from metal sheeting. I have measured, marked, and cut metal pieces from metal sheeting in a manner that minimizes wasted material. 10 Do you have experience in fabricating, installing, and making repairs to copper roofs? Answer to this question is required Yes 10.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 11 Which response best describes your highest level of experience fabricating metal objects (e.g., ductwork, roofing patches, hardware)? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others with construction, roofing, or maintenance tasks by retrieving and placing materials or tools as instructed. I have assisted others with the fabrication of metal objects by measuring, marking, and joining materials as instructed. I have independently determined the lay out, joining method, and materials needed to fabricate metal objects. I have independently determined the lay out, joining methods, and materials needed to fabricate complex metal objects (e.g., multiple angles, scrollwork). None of the above 12 Which documents have you read and interpreted to complete construction, maintenance, or assembly tasks? Answer to this question is required Assembly instructions Equipment specifications Equipment operation manuals Safety procedures Field notes Field sketches Blueprints None of the above 13 Do you have experience creating patterns to retrofit sheet metal objects in historically significant buildings? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 &nbsp;Do you have experience interpreting and reading blueprints, sketches, instructions and/or product specifications to determine sequence and methods of fabricating and/or installing items on heating, air conditioning, ventilation systems; kitchen systems; and copper roofing. Answer to this question is required Yes 14.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 15 Select the tasks that demonstrate your dexterity in performing sheet metal work. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Fabricated fittings including straight pieces, curved pieces, and fittings that involve irregular curves and planes. Fabricated items of varied angle or pitch and circumference. Constructed seams, joints, and edges related to sheet metal fabrication. Applied radial and parallel line development principles to pattern development and fabrication. None of the above. 16 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience applying safety practices at work. Answer to this question is required I personally adhered to existing safety practices on the job. I ensured that other workers adhered to existing safety practices. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required. I have reminded co-workers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of myself and others when performing work tasks. I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. None of the above. 17 In which environments have you performed repair or maintenance work? Answer to this question is required In mechanical rooms In attics In sub-basements Inside ductwork None of the above 18 From the responses below, select the types of work you have performed on duct systems that typically consist of a variety of metals such as copper, stainless steel, and/or b rass, bronze, aluminum, copper, and galvanized steel.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have independently fabricated and installed duct systems. I have independently conducted demolition/removal of duct systems. I have independently cleaned duct systems. I have independently modified duct systems. None of the above. View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.