Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 All librarians must meet the requirements for professional education in library science or possess equivalent experience and education. I have: A. Completion of 1 full academic year of graduate study in library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to completion of all work required for a bachelor's degree; or B.&nbsp; A total of at least 5 years of a combination of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education, training, and experience provided knowledge and understanding of the theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship; a knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities essential for providing effective library and information services. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Upon the conditional job offer, I will submit a legible copy of my official transcript(s) within 5 business days.&nbsp; Failure to submit the required legible documentation could result in your conditional job offer being rescinded. Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Ability to develop, implement, manage, and evaluate reference and research services to meet client needs.** Applied knowledge of the theories, concepts, processes, techniques, principles and/or practices of library and information science to reference, public policy, and legal research services management to achieve program results. This includes: 1) setting priorities and policies for reference, public policy and legal research services; 2) utilizing knowledge of current and emerging reference and research strategies, methodologies, and sources; 3) using qualitative or quantitative resources or databases to respond to client requests; 4) utilizing information technology in a library or information resource center setting; 5) managing reference collections, reading room space and design; 6) working closely with other managers in developing best practices in reference and research services. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge in ALL of the above areas in a government or special library or information resource center. Applied expert knowledge in FIVE of the above areas in a government or special library or information resource center. Applied expert knowledge in FOUR of the above areas in a government or special library or information resource center. None of the above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to lead and manage staff.** Supervised or led a team of information professionals in a library or information resource center, and in so doing, performed the following activities: 1) participated in assessing current and future staffing and/or project team needs; 2) participated in the recruiting, hiring, and training staff and/or project team members; 3) when necessary, took action to remove employees or change composition of a project team; 4) held staff and/or project team accountable for meeting established performance standards; 5) ensured that work of staff and/or project team was appropriately delegated; 6) provided regular constructive feedback and coaching toward goal attainment; 7) provided opportunities for job enrichment and advancement; 8) encouraged the active participation of employees or team members in planning and decision-making; and 9) identified and implemented methods to improve staff and/or project team productivity. Answer to this question is required Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for a team of information professionals in a library or information resource center, and, in doing so, exercised ALL of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. Served as the OFFICIAL SUPERVISOR for a team of information professionals in a library or information resource center, and, in doing so, exercised seven (7) or eight (8) of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. Served as an ACTING SUPERVISOR, PROJECT TEAM LEADER, or equivalent in a library or information resource center, and, in doing so, exercised at least six (6) of the management or leadership responsibilities listed above. None of the above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing and review the writing of others.** Wrote clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable work products in the area of information management (e.g., knowledge management, information research, collection development, curriculum development and training for information users). Examples include: 1) policies and procedures, 2) correspondence, 3) reports, 4) memoranda, and 5) project plans and proposals. Evaluated the written products of others to meet the quality standards of a research, public policy, or legal organization. This includes making improvements to this material and being able to articulate clearly the problems and concerns about the material as well as remedies where appropriate. Answer to this question is required As a principal author, independently wrote ALL of the above documents in the area of information management. Evaluated and critically reviewed others’ written products for compliance with established qualitative standards. Made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Was responsible for making revisions to improve content and organization of this material and for ensuring its consistency with standards. As a coauthor, wrote AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above documents in the area of information management. Evaluated and critically reviewed others’ written products for compliance with established qualitative standards. Made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Offered recommendations to improve material. As a coauthor, wrote AT LEAST THREE (3) of the above documents in the area of information management. Evaluated and critically reviewed others’ written products for compliance with established qualitative standards. Made independent judgments on acceptability of material. None of the above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to manage instruction services to meet client needs. Have an understanding of the use of bibliographic and database instruction and its application in public policy reference and research. This includes knowledge of (1) instruction sources, (2) instruction tools and applications, (3) instruction processes, and (4) when instruction librarians or information professionals can enhance public policy reference and research services. This also includes (5) general knowledge of the instruction landscape and (6) user requirements for instruction services. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge in ALL of the above, in a library or information resource center. Applied knowledge in FIVE of the above, in a library or information resource center. Have working knowledge in FOUR of the above, in a library or information resource center. None of the above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).