Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education). Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., in a field that is directly related to the duties of this position. I have an LL.M., related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to Grade 9 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Develop fellowship descriptions, guidelines, procedures, application forms, newsletters, advertisements, and website information. Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job, I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 3 Managing an online application portal. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job, I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 4 Overseeing development and maintenance of online applications and review process.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job, I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted an an expert for assistance. 5 Works with upper-level management ensuring contracts, license agreements, and visas are procured for all international fellows and guest scholars, according to current federal guidelines.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 6 Interpret and apply applicable travel laws, regulations, procedures, and policies.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 7 Coordinate travel plans, airline reservations, rental/GSA vehicles and other travel related needs.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job, I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 8 Use Web-based systems to process either travel arrangements, voucher examination, credit card and reconciliations.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 9 Review travel vouchers for completeness and to ensure compliance with applicable travel laws, regulations, and procedures, and policies.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job, I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted an an expert for assistance. 10 Ensures that award payment schedules, current tax withholding requirements, and allowances are reflected &nbsp;accurately under terms of contracts, so that current stipend levels are awarded from each source of funding.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted an an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.