Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of major corporations, high-ranking officials of the Department of Justice and other government agencies, co-workers, staff from institutions, Regional Offices, and Central Office.&nbsp;He/she will also have frequent contact with other private sector entities and the public.&nbsp;The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, must be able to effectively communicate in order to provide research, planning, and management expertise across the organization to subordinate managers/staff, Central Office Corporate Management, Functional and Program Management staff, Field Management staff, vendors, customers and consultants.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented agency or organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have developed and facilitated training sessions/presentations to executive level employees. I have exchanged information with personnel from the department and other agencies and components; and/or I have participated in the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process; and/or I have coordinated/contacted and exchanged information with external private sector Corporate staff and various company officials; and/or I have communicated findings of a staff assist visit to managers/Wardens/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), providing recommendations for discrepancies noted; and/or I have effectively communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have participated in community based meetings to promote agency/organization. I have participated as a member of a taskforce or workgroup; and/or I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have briefed department/office/unit staff on issues within specific discipline; and/or I have participated as a member of a counseling group after a traumatic event; and/or I have assisted in developing training courses/seminars for peers and other internal Bureau of Prisons staff; and/or I have chaired Branch meeting. None of the above. 5 The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, is responsible for preparing a variety of reports, correspondence, policy, and procedural guides. He/she must possess comprehensive written communication skills to communicate information to targeted audiences, which may include members of Congress, Department of Justice officials, agency executives, managers, private sector entities, line staff, and the public.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws and regulations, in laymen's terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high-level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures. I have prepared instructional material/information for subordinates and peers; and/or I have prepared written responses to inquiries from other departments; and/or I have prepared lesson plans in order to conduct training seminars; and/or I have prepared an audit response; and/or I have revised local policy. I have prepared a portion of an annual report/document; and/or I have prepared weekly status briefing; and/or I have written internal policy/Institution Supplement/Operations Memorandum; and/or I have independently prepared reports, documentation, or correspondence which was utilized without change; and/or I have written a comprehensive report based upon an audit of a department. I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (technical journal, magazine); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified the recommended decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have routinely proofread and edited reports/correspondence developed by other management level employees; and/or I have provided support to the Office of General Counsel on a broad array of legal policy, public information and Congressional affairs issues; and/or I have assisted other agencies in preparing responses to all outside audits of the Bureau of Prisons or industry activities. None of the above. 6 The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, must possess the ability to direct a variety of complex projects simultaneously using all available resources. He/she must also possess the ability to effectively deal with constantly changing priorities and independently ensure requirements are met.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have modified processes to meet internal or external customer requirements; and/or I have organized purchase requirements; and/or I have successfully met due date requirements of multiple projects. I have developed and implemented operating plans which exceeded sales and/or earning goals; and/or I have managed branch/section purchases to comply with authorized budget; and/or I have organized changes and re-prioritized production plans due to customer change requirements and met delivery schedule of finished product; and/or I have anticipated customer needs and coordinated efforts with vendors, suppliers, and factories to ensure contract requirements were met; and/or I have monitored the division progress toward completing strategic goals and objectives. I have planned and implemented specific Corporate project from inception to completion; and/or I have successfully organized the purchasing of resources (i.e., Request for Special Authorizations, Request for Contract Actions); and/or I have modified production line to meet an emergency requirement (i.e., halted normal production to produce emergency product and met shipping requirements); and/or I have managed multiple projects successfully to completion. None of the above. 7 The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, must analyze and evaluate a variety of information to ascertain if current programs, processes, and/or procedures are meeting their intended goals for the Federal Prison Industries (FPI). He/she must be able to systematically identify, monitor, investigate, and analyze operational and program issues affecting the management of the organization, and must be able to establish appropriate responses or resolutions to both short and long-term problems, or issues encountered.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research; and/or I have analyzed industry data and made recommendations or findings utilized by senior level staff; and/or I have used a variety of resource venues to collect statistical data which was included in a major report; and/or I have analyzed results of audit data and developed trend or deficiency reports; and/or I have made a decision on which statistical analysis procedure and/or program to use in the examination of research data. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP)/available information to compare operations of similar facilities/organizations; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have employed the use of multi-variate techniques while involved in a trend study. I have developed new or modified existing strategic management plans to meet the needs of the agency/organization; and/or I have established and maintained active working relationships with data source agencies to effect the acquisition of needed economic and market data; and/or I have reviewed departmental organization and made appropriate adjustments in resources to ensure efficient and effective operations were maintained; and/or I have directed the initiation, maintenance, and revision of systems which provide annual, fiscal year, operational, long-term, and short-term plans for the industry; and/or I have analyzed and developed long-range strategic plans, goals, and objectives for the industry; and/or I have developed and provided Corporate Management with timely analysis and interpretation of a broad range of macro-economic data (i.e., industry growth rates, unemployment trends, budget deficits, imports-to-consumption ratios); and/or I have utilized Personal Computer (PC) based, None of the above. 8 The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, must design and participate in (or directly supervise those designing and participating in) a variety of studies and projects which involve extensive knowledge of social science methods and the ability to apply them in a manner which fits into the context of generally accepted social science standards.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated as a team member in conducting a census study; and/or I have obtained data for a project through accepted methods; and/or I have constructed a written survey. I have designed and conducted a research study or focus group meeting; and/or I have developed methodology for studies being conducted by peers or subordinates; and/or I have served as a research liaison to managers and others to perform ongoing economic production research. I have performed duties as a lead scientific researcher and chief methodologist for longitudinal studies; and/or I have conducted reviews of the relevant economic aspects of international trade agreements, federal legislation, and federal agency rules and regulations, or other pertinent market research; and/or I have authored studies published in national scientific journals; and/or I have researched and prepared responses to Congressional inquiries on planning and economic related matters associated with the industry or Bureau of Prisons’ operations, including such issues as market condition, industry trends, private sector impact. None of the above. 9 The Deputy Chief, PRA Branch, performs all planning, organizing, staffing, directing, and controlling functions associated with&nbsp;Research Planning Analysis and Corporate Support, and their subordinate staff. He/she directly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee's job knowledge; and/or I have developed and implemented a system to track assignments and ensured all deadlines were met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and/or increased morale. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have served as a leader of an organization/unit responsible for directing the work of others; and/or I have led or chaired a project/taskforce which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other divisions/offices/units; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have met with subordinates according to policy to discuss performance and provide feedback; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have assigned subordinates reading assignments in their area of expertise; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP); and/or I have advised subordinates of available training that would enhance their job knowledge or performance level; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievances before being escalated to a higher level for action. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 5 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 10 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 11 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).