Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to perform project and program management functions.** Performed project and program management functions in support of an office or organization. In doing so, conducted the following: 1) defined the area, scope, and parameters; 2) identified stakeholders and resources; 3) planned and designed project; 4) monitored progress and made adjustments as necessary; 5) collected pertinent data and compiled reports; 6) reported results, evaluated data, and made recommendations to management and key stakeholders; and 7) collaborated with teams within and outside of team or organization to reach goals. Answer to this question is required As a lead, managed multiple complex programs and projects in support of an office or organization and in doing so, performed ALL of the above tasks. As a lead or as part of a team, managed simple to complex programs and projects in support of an office or organization and in doing so, performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above tasks. As a lead or as part of a team, managed simple to complex programs and projects in support of an office or organization and in doing so, performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above tasks. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to serve as a liaison and interact collaboratively with others.** The ability to work well and cooperate with others (co-workers, supervisors, managers, other agencies, and other service and support units) using good judgment and discretion to provide positive and professional consultation and liaison services. Anticipated existing and future needs and exchanged accurate information with persons and groups to accomplish the projects and/or programs. Answer to this question is required Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure project and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Facilitated discussions concerning program planning and project matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with managers, supervisors, staff, clients, and others inside and outside the organization to ensure project and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Participated in discussions concerning program planning and project matters. Developed and maintained professional contacts through regular collaboration with contacts internal to the organization or office to ensure project and program matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with individuals who sometimes held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and/or issues of a sensitive, confidential and/or controversial nature. Facilitated discussions concerning program planning and project matters. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to perform data collection and analysis for program and/or project management.** Performed both qualitative and quantitative data collection and analysis tasks in support of programs and/or projects within an organization, including the following: 1) identified and managed data collection methods; 2) compiled data and reports; 3) prepared data and analysis for summaries, studies, requests, and/or presentations; 4) developed and maintained policies for data collection, management, and reporting; 5) leveraged collected data to formulate proposals to optimize processes or work; and 6) implemented data-informed changes to improve programs and/or projects. Answer to this question is required Independently executed ALL of the above tasks in support of projects and/or programs within an organization. Independently or under minimal supervision, executed FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above tasks in support of projects and/or programs within an organization. Under supervision, executed THREE (3) of the above tasks in support of projects and/or programs within an organization. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to communicate in writing.** Prepared clear, accurate, well-organized, and understandable written products such as: 1) management and foundation reports, 2) ad hoc reports, 3) policies and procedures, 4) planning documents, 5) presentations; 6) official or formal correspondence, and 7) informal correspondence (e.g., memoranda). Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, independently authored ALL of the above for dissemination within and outside the organization. As a primary job responsibility, authored SIX (6) of the above, some independently and some with supervisory review, for dissemination within and outside the organization. As a primary job responsibility, authored FIVE (5) of the above, some independently and some with supervisory review, for dissemination within and outside the organization. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to plan, organize, and execute work. Planned, coordinated, and executed sensitive and/or complex assignments and demonstrated the ability to work effectively under pressure with multiple assignments supporting the goals and objectives of an organization. Answer to this question is required Effectively planned, coordinated, and executed sensitive and/or complex assignments and tasks and demonstrated the ability to work effectively under pressure with multiple assignments supporting the goals and objectives of an organization. Demonstrated an understanding of assignments and tasks in executing work. Effectively planned, coordinated, and executed assignments and tasks and demonstrated the ability to work effectively under pressure with multiple assignments supporting the goals and objectives of an organization. Effectively executed assignments and tasks and demonstrated the ability to work effectively under pressure to support the goals and objectives of an organization. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 13 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).