Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question see the experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 In which of the following areas do you have experience managing professional and educational exchange programs: Answer to this question is required Exchange Program Development Oversight of worldwide and region project implementation Budget Coordination with non-profit organizations None of the above 2 Experience working with foreign governments and non-governmental organizations. Answer to this question is required I have no experience working with governments and non-governmental organizations. I have managed projects requiring coordination with the U.S. government and non-governmental organizations. I have worked on U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental committees and work groups. I have lead and coordinated programs with U.S. and foreign governmental and non-governmental organizations. None of the above 3 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints? Answer to this question is required I have no experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems. I have experience reconciling conflicting viewpoints that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 4 Which of the following BEST describes your experience developing and presenting briefings to high-level agency officials within an organization? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 Which of the following best describes your experience working effectively under pressure where fluctuating deadlines and priorities often occur? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in performing this task. I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it routinely and have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience in setting priorities to meet your professional responsibilities? Answer to this question is required I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I am skilled at adjusting my use of time to meet changes in priorities and the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. When priorities conflict, I normally resolve the conflicts independently. I manage multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period. I adjust my use of time to meet changes in priorities and the requirements of new and/or unexpected work. In resolving conflicts, I involve the team leader or supervisor. In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with senior management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I assist my team or staff in determining how best to use their time and reprioritize their work as situations warrant. None of the above 7 Which of the following BEST describes your experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the international exchange community? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in representing a division or organization at meetings, conferences, and events. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.