Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Degree &nbsp;which included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences. OR B. Combination of education and experience --that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences, and that provided applicants with knowledge of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a 4-year degree as shown in A above. Evaluation of Education&nbsp; - Courses, such as sociology, correctional administration, criminal justice, government/political science, psychology, social work, counseling, and other related social or behavioral science courses may be used to satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement.&nbsp; Evaluation of Experience - Experience must have been gained in (1) casework in a correctional institution or in another criminal justice setting; (2) counseling in any setting, provided it required diagnostic or treatment planning skills to achieve specific social or occupational goals; or (3) work treating persons in need of social rehabilitation. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be uploaded at the time you apply. Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess one of the following Selective Factors. In the event you do not possess the Selective Factors, you will be found ineligible for the position. Selective Factor: A current, valid, unrestricted license by the State as a Licensed Mental Health Counselor, Licensed Professional Counselor, Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist (LMFT) or Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW). 3 Do you meet the Selective Factor for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the Selective Factor for this position. No, I do not meet the Selective Factor for this position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Qualified Mental Health Professional communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, which includes both inmates and staff within the agency/organization. He/she facilitates individual and group psychotherapy to inmates. He/she attends meetings with other program staff and shares information, knowledge, ideas and recommendations, and educates other staff about psychological problems and related issues.&nbsp;The Qualified Mental Health Professional demonstrates communication skills when facilitating agency training, collaborating with other mental health and healthcare providers to coordinate patient care, and while conducting inmate interviews to obtain information. He/she conducts program orientation lectures to inmates as part of the institution&rsquo;s Admissions and Orientation Program. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have presented complex mental health material to colleagues or supervisors; and/or I have communicated with others as a member of a clinical treatment team in an inpatient setting; and/or I have presented complex clinical cases to other mental health professionals; and/or I have facilitated process and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) groups in an adult inpatient or correctional setting; and/or I have instructed formal training to others on various programs inside the agency/organization and responded to questions. I have observed Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) or process groups with an adult population and discussed ideas and recommendations with others; and/or I have under supervision, led a process or other treatment group; and/or I have attended clinical treatment team meetings and shared information. I have presented a clinical case to a clinical team for discussion; and/or I have facilitated process groups with adult patients; and/or I have provided an oral presentation on mental health or wellness topics to colleagues or supervisors; and/or I have delivered training with others during a workshop. None of the above. 5 The Qualified Mental Health Professional produces written diagnostic reports, treatment plans, and other clinical and administrative documentation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have under supervision, prepared comprehensive psycho-social assessments; and/or I have completed interviews and summaries of psycho-social screenings; and/or I have completed clinical intake interview documentation for a supervisor’s review. I have as a licensed provider, prepared comprehensive psycho-social assessments which determined specific evidence-based treatment needs of adult mentally ill patients; and/or I have developed evidence-based treatment plans from a psychologist’s assessment report; and/or I have prepared mental health treatment summaries. I have drafted comprehensive psychological assessments for review; and/or I have drafted clinical treatment notes for supervisor’s review; and/or I have assisted others in developing a treatment plan. None of the above. 6 The Qualified Mental Health Professional develops and implements techniques using the&nbsp;Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) approach. He/she helps inmates in managing and improving psychological problems.&nbsp;The Qualified Mental Health Professional has the responsibility of making professional decisions concerning diagnosis and treatment of inmates under his/her care.&nbsp;He/she identifies problematic patterns of behavior and develops evidence-based treatment plans to facilitate change.&nbsp;The Qualified Mental Health Professional provides evidence-based group and individual treatment interventions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have under supervision, conducted diagnostic interviews; and/or I have made treatment program referrals; and/or I have facilitated psycho-educational classes; and/or I have used standardized clinical interviews with adults or adolescents. I have under supervision, developed treatment plans for adults with serious mental illness or who were behaviorally disordered; and/or I have under supervision, evaluated adults to assess treatment needs and made evidence-based treatment referrals; and/or I have facilitated Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) groups or individual interventions with adults or adolescents. I have as an independent provider in an inpatient setting, assessed treatment needs, developed and implemented evidence-based treatment plans for adults with serious mental illness or who were behaviorally disordered; and/or I have facilitated a variety of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) groups and individual interventions with adults in an inpatient setting with full responsibility for treatment implementation; and/or I have facilitated groups and individual Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) interventions in a modified therapeutic community. None of the above. 7 The Qualified Mental Health Professional assesses treatment needs individually and in group settings.&nbsp;He/she plans programming, evaluates treatment effectiveness and sets treatment goals. He/she reads inmate records to extract relevant information for the purpose of developing individualized treatment plans.&nbsp;The Qualified Mental Health Professional assesses needs related to aftercare programs and makes individualized recommendations for inmates released to halfway houses or the community.&nbsp;He/she participates as a member of an interdisciplinary clinical staff team responsible for developing, implementing, and assessing programming needs and treatment goals.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed clinical treatment summaries and discussed with supervisor; and/or I have as a student/intern, participated in clinical interdisciplinary meetings; and/or I have reviewed clinical records and discussed findings with supervisor. I have used automated systems to extract statistical data on inmates in order to monitor established treatment plans; and/or I have provisionally diagnosed a mental illness using various clinical interviewing techniques and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; and/or I have developed and implemented evidence-based programming in an inpatient treatment community; and/or I have prepared clinical treatment summaries with specific individualized aftercare programming recommendations for incarcerated adults; and/or I have used clinical records along with a clinical interview to develop an evidence-based treatment plan; and/or I have involved in interdisciplinary teams developing and accessing treatment interventions and programming needs. I have gathered documentation in order to respond to inquiries; and/or I have under supervision, developed and implemented evidence-based programming in an outpatient treatment program; and/or I have prepared individualized clinical treatment summaries; and/or I have made suggestions to supervisor regarding individualized aftercare programming; and/or I have observed clinical multidisciplinary meetings and provided input in several case conceptualizations. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).