Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 04 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: 2 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM employee. I am a WS/WG employee. 2.1 Are you currently at the WG/WS-04 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis? Yes No 2.2 Were you previously at the WG/WS-04 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons? Yes No I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. 2.1 Please provide your annual or hourly salary information below. Include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. I am applying under a special hiring authority. NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and material needs; and/or I have trained new workers. I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments and estimated time and material needs; and/or I have evaluated performance and provided training to new workers. I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 4 In a correctional setting, Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution. I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law. I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e. safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems). None of the above. 5 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must have knowledge of and the ability to use various laundry machinery and equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used, at the journeyman level, the following equipment: finishing lathe, embroiderer, 250 lb. washer, 125 lb dryer, presses of various types, folding machine, 5000 rpm extractor, stamping machine, sewing machines of various types, grinder, sander, sole stitcher, sole trimmer, and stitch machine. I have been a technical advisor to management in the field of laundry operations; and/or I have supervised the operation of large, multi-faceted laundry operations (regular, dry, steam cleaning, etc); and/or I have trained others in the use of complex laundry operating equipment . I have completed a Senior Apprenticeship under a journeyman supervisor; and/or I have performed duties with washers and dryers, seeking guidance when needed on new or unusual tasks; and/or I have performed work using instructions from manufacturers, journey level employees or foreman instructions. None of the above. 6 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must be knowledgeable of the practices required by the position to ensure laundry plant machinery, area and equipment is kept neat, clean and in order. They must maintain correct and precise logs, records, etc., and meet deadlines. They must be knowledgeable of laundry handling and loading procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed full laundry functions on my own initiative; and/or I have maintained required daily/weekly logs for the workstation; and/or I have ensured safety and cleanliness requirements are maintained for work area. I have performed general tasks under supervision in a laundry plant; and/or I have utilized established checklists to maintain work area safety and sanitation requirements; and/or I have recorded supplies used in a manual log/tracking system; and/or I have notified higher level workers when additional supplies were needed, or equipment malfunctioned. I have supervised and managed a laundry plant operation with little or no direct supervision; and/or I have implemented and maintained daily/weekly/monthly logs which tracked laundry operations, manpower requirements, supplies used/required, etc.; and/or I have re-prioritized current operation to meet the needs of a "rush" order or operation. None of the above. 7 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must be knowledgeable of new and up-to-date practices in laundry plant operations and machinery. They must have the ability to accomplish demanding tasks and invent new ways to accomplish tasks that cannot be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have accomplished routine cleaning and laundry plant tasks following standard manuals and instructions. I have diagnosed difficult cleaning assignments and determined proper cleaning methods through my knowledge of trade practices. I have performed tasks independently and have handled complex cleaning assignments on a routine basis. None of the above. 8 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must have the ability to interpret laundry machine instructions, manufacturers specifications, policy and program statements, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have accomplished tasks through routine instructions. I have been a shop foreman of a laundry plant and have interpreted various complex guidelines to accomplish tasks. I have responded to instructions and directions in a laundry plant, under close supervision. None of the above. 9 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must be knowledgeable of the materials used in the operation of a laundry plant. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed routine tasks associated with laundry plant operations. I have performed routine tasks associated with laundry plant operations under close supervision. I have served as a technical expert in matters related to laundry plant operations. None of the above. 10 Laundry Machine Operator Supervisors must have the ability to operate with dexterity and safety. This includes consideration of speed and quality of laundry operations, coordination of hand, foot, and body movement. It also includes training obtained and actual safety record. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed in a superior manner while working in a laundry facility and have not had any accidents on record for failing to follow safety procedures. I have performed in a satisfactory manner in a laundry plant or similar operations; and/or I have followed safety procedures. I have performed routine tasks associated with laundry plant operations under close supervision. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).