Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Choose the statement that best describes that you meet the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. I have successfully completed at least 24 semester hours in a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. I meet the following exception as defined in the OPM Qualification Standards: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the basic requirement for positions they occupied on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupied GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to have met the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through GS-12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position. I do not meet the basic qualification requirements as described above. 2 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service OR equivalent level experience in the private sector, military or other as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes Examples of specialized experience include: (1) Leading a large procurement group that executes complex contracts with innovative acquisition strategies.&nbsp; (2) Serving as a high-level expert and advisor on acquisition regulations and contracting procedures. (3) Utilizing performance metrics, setting short and long range goals, and analyzing and mitigating risk. (4) Awarding and administering construction and supplies and services contracts.&nbsp;(5) Providing guidance and performance expectations to encourage employee career growth and advancement. No 3 I have Federal Acquisition Institute (FAI) Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Professional) Certification or the Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act equivalencies. Answer to this question is required True False 4 Select the statement that best describes our experience supervising and managing a staff, analyzing and resolving personnel issues, and carrying out functional assignments through employees supervised. Answer to this question is required I have directed and planned work assignments, developed performance plans, evaluated individuals on achievement of performance standards and objectives, and counseled employees on methods to improve their job performance. I have served as a senior or technical specialist working with lower-graded employees carrying out the functions of the office. I have observed performance and provided feedback to my supervisor on employee assignments. I have served as a senior or technical specialist but do not have experience carrying out functional assignments through co-workers. I do not have experience performing this task. 5 Select the tasks that you routinely performed and for which you have provided assistance and/or training. Answer to this question is required Interpreted and applied program policies, procedures, and regulations. Developed special clauses, terms, and/or conditions applicable to a solicitation. Terminated contracts for default or convenience and negotiated settlements. Assessed program needs, identified risks, solved problems, defended, negotiated, or settled matters involving significant controversial issues. None of the above. 6 Choose the statement that best describes your ability to analyze and solve problems and make recommendations related to contractual issues. Answer to this question is required Evaluated and resolved routine acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and resolved issues and problems by engaging in the analysis and comparison of facts to reach a conclusion or make a recommendation. Evaluated and resolved moderately complex acquisition issues/problems related to requirements development, solicitation, negotiation, award, and contract administration. Evaluated and found optimal solutions to complex acquisition issues/problems. For example, determined the applicability of complex statutes or regulations related to contract administration (e.g. protest, debriefing, disputes, source selection, etc.). None of the above. 7 Do you have experience working on complex multi-million dollar service contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Select the tasks that you performed in the negotiation and source selection process. Answer to this question is required Guided customers/partners through the review, negotiation, and evaluation of bids and proposals process. Made award decisions. Documented source selection decisions and drafted contracts that included agreed upon terms, conditions, special provisions, and negotiated price. Engaged in source selection activities to debrief offers and/or respond to protests. Developed new or modified evaluation criteria, reporting requirements, and contractual arrangements for products and services. Planned the negotiated strategies for large, highly complex, and significant equipment systems, programs, or services where little contractual precedent existed. Negotiated procurements for long-term systems, programs, or projects where no precedents were available. None of the above. 9 Which tasks did you perform to determine the necessity, fairness, and reasonableness of proposed contract costs? Answer to this question is required Devised multiple incentives that required the use of sophisticated contracting techniques. Shared cost risk arrangements, such as cost-plus-incentive-fee or fixed-price-incentive-fee. Prepared economic price adjustment clauses that identified the basis for adjusting labor or material costs where pricing could not be reasonably predicted at the time of contract negotiation. Gathered and evaluated price and/or cost data for pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions. Performed basic analyses for firm fixed-price contracts. None of the above. 10 Do you advise senior executives, customers, and managers as a central or major part of your job, independently and without supervisory review, on the policies, procedures, and practices of contracts related to planning, market research, soliciting, awarding, and administration? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Select the proficiency levels that describe your ability to bring about strategic change to meet organizational goals. Answer to this question is required Designed approaches and procedures to develop a strategic plan supporting key agency goals and objectives. Established strategic performance measures to allow the organization to continually assess and adjust program direction. Conducted a review of the agency's core mission and gathered information from relevant sources to support development of a strategic plan. Implemented strategic objectives and developed metrics to assess attainment of work unit goals. None of the Above 12 Which performance management functions have you performed on a regular and recurring basis? Answer to this question is required Design or maintain key performance indicators for strategic and operational management. Utilize analytical methods to track and assess program performance. Perform analysis in order to form solutions to complex problems in a wide variety of functions and work processes for the organization. Lead special projects or assignments to recommend solutions to application problems involving complex, precedent setting, sensitive and/or controversial issues. Develop project and program criteria for measuring status and progress. Monitor, analyze, communicate, and evaluate KPI performance and trends to leadership. Evaluate and determine improvements to KPIs, metrics, and other process performance critical data. None of the above 13 Which concepts have you used to develop and encourage teamwork to accomplish contracting objectives? Insert your narrative response below. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 Do you have experience working on complex multi-million dollar supplies and services contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 Identify budgeting, scheduling and risk management tasks you have performed on large supplies and services projects, on a regular and recurring basis to ensure availability of adequate resources and successful delivery consistent with relevant project objectives. Answer to this question is required Coordinated the activities of an organization in developing budget Consolidated budgets for multiple operating units or organizations Developed budget, requests with supporting justifications Prepared requests for budgeted resources for an organization Engaged in the strategic planning process Applied financial analysis techniques to determine the effect of strategic decisions Used software and systems for developing budgets schedule and risk management approaches for or forecasting Provided guidance and advice to others in drafting budgeting , scheduling and risk management plans and justifications None of the above 16 What special contracting methods have you used to acquire supplies and services? Answer to this question is required Multiple Award Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs) Multiple Award Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contracts General Services Administration (GSA) Task Orders Firm-Fixed Price (FFP) Contracts Memorandum of Agreements (MOAs) / Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 15 Contracting by Negotiation Procurements Labor Hour (LH) Contracts Time and Materials (T&M) Contracts None of the above 17 What written materials have you prepared, reviewed, and revised relating to contract and procurement activities? Answer to this question is required Acquisition plans Market research Sources sought notices Source selection plans Justifications and Approvals Solicitations Inter-agency agreements Determinations and findings Reports None of the above 18 Do you have experience working on complex multi-million dollar construction contracts? Answer to this question is required Yes No 19 Choose the statement that best describes your oversight responsibility for organizational communication with individuals involved in the contract process. Answer to this question is required I have oversight of personnel responsible for communicating in writing with contractors and offerers (including large and small businesses, non-profit organizations, and universities) regarding a wide range of pre- and post-award issues. I have oversight of personnel responsible for communicating in writing with contractors and program personnel on serious performance problems or on issues related to the need for expedited or increased action from the project officer (COR) or other program personnel. I have oversight of personnel responsible for thoroughly documenting a file to clearly evidence all pre- and post-award actions taken in a file. I have oversight of personnel responsible for writing contracts and Inter-agency Agreements. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.