Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following supervisory tasks have you performed? Answer to this question is required Planned, assigned, and organized work assignments of employees. Developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of subordinates. Provided advice, counsel, and instructions to employees on both work and administrative matters. Counseled and disciplined employees who failed to perform satisfactorily. Resolved complex operational problems presented by subordinate staff. Recommended and implemented solutions to administrative and management problems that hindered the accomplishment of organizational objectives. Implemented organizational development program to facilitate change and communication. None of the above. 2 Please indicate which methods you have used to effectively lead or substantially contribute to a process improvement initiative: Answer to this question is required Conducting research to define a process and/or workplace culture dynamic Interviewing stakeholders Writing a document to summarize findings and present recommendations to decision makers Orally presenting recommendations to decision makers Preparing an implementation plan Preparing a communication plan Developing a measurement system to determine performance and/or improvement Developing an evaluation system to determine if expected outcomes are achieved Coordinating the implementation of changes None of the above 3 Do you have experience consulting with representatives from various departments or branches to resolve Human Capital issues that arise in the workplace? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Do you have experience helping staff meet requirements for records management? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 For what purposes have you performed analyses? Answer to this question is required To develop program recommendations. To ensure efficient use of office resources. To modify program goals. To measure program performance. To investigate business processes. To develop program reporting systems. To perform cost benefit analysis. None of the above 6 Which documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Program Evaluation Reports Presentations Standard operation procedures Summaries None of the above 7 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above 8 Which response best describes your highest level of experience persuading others to adopt a policy or course of action? Answer to this question is required I have participated in discussions to persuade others to adopt a controversial policy, regulation, or course of action. I have participated in discussions to persuade others to adopt a non-controversial policy, regulation, or course of action. I have completed education or training related to persuasive communication techniques, but have not applied this knowledge in my work. I have led discussions and successfully persuaded others to adopt a non-controversial policy, regulation, or course of action. I have led discussions and successfully persuaded others to adopt with a controversial policy, regulation, or course of action. None of the above. 9 Which oral communication tasks have you performed at work? Answer to this question is required Explained technical issues to a variety of individuals from within and outside the agency or organization. Established working relationships with representatives of other organizations. Provided advice, guidance, or direction to staff on regulations and procedures. Clarified regulatory or policy requirements. Identified and obtained missing information. Negotiated issues among parties with differing interests to gain agreement. None of the above. 10 Please provide a brief statement describing the types of administrative problems you have encountered and how you have successfully resolved them (in 5,000 characters or less). Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.