Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following BEST describes your background in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in foreign policy / international affairs. I have education or training in foreign policy / international affairs, but have not applied it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs as a regualar part of my job, and usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing work in the realm of foreign policy / international affairs, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 2 Which of the following BEST describes your background in Western Hemisphere regional politics, economics and society, and U.S. foreign policy toward the region? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in Western Hemisphere regional politics, economics and society, and U.S. foreign policy toward the region. I have education or training in Western Hemisphere regional politics, economics and society, and U.S. foreign policy toward the region, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely performed work in Western Hemisphere regional politics, economics and society, and U.S. foreign policy toward the region as part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work in Western Hemisphere regional politics, economics and society, and U.S. foreign policy toward the region as part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in performing work in Western Hemisphere regional politics, economics and society, and U.S. foreign policy toward the region, having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 3 Which of the following best describes your background in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources. I have education or training in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely and independently analyzed and evaluated information derived from a variety of sources as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at independently analyzing and evaluating information derived from a variety of sources having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have routinely analyzed and evaluated information derived from a variety of sources as a regular part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. 4 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level establishing contacts, working with, influencing, coordinating and directing interagency U.S. foreign affairs activities? Answer to this question is required I have education and/or training performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. My work on this task was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of the job and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I am considered an expert and have instructed or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my experience in this area. I have no experience, education, or training performing this task. 5 With which of the following officials/ organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public None of the above 6 Please indicate the manner in which you have communicated orally or made oral presentations Answer to this question is required Speeches Conferences Meetings One-on-one discussions Telephone inquiries Training Technical assistance Interviews Briefings Negotiations None of the above 7 Which of the following BEST describes your background on the U.S. foreign policy making process? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in the U.S. foreign policy making process. I have education or training in the U.S. foreign policy making process, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely performed work on the U.S. foreign policy making process as part of my job with review by a supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work on the U.S. foreign policy making process as part of my job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in performing work on the U.S. foreign policy making process, having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following choices BEST describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively on foreign policy matters? Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal. I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission. I have made formal presentations to officials inside and/or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action, reverse procedures, or expend resources. I have resolved major conflicts and disagreements in an interest-based manner, demonstrating a faculty for compromise without sacrificing goals. None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of negotiating experience? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education or training in negotiating issues. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have defended my positions and negotiated specific issues under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I routinely and independently defend my positions and negotiate an array of issues under the direction of my supervisor OR a senior colleague. I defend my positions and negotiate issues as a central or major part of my work. I perform this task routinely and usually independently. I consult with the supervisor OR a senior colleague in negotiating more complex issues. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.