Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position. A. Education: Successfully completed training in an approved school for medical records technicians equates to 1 year of general experience. No credit may be given for partial completion of such training. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree in a medical records administration educational program accredited by the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) and the American Medical Association's Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) meets the requirements for GS-5 positions. Successful completion of the requirements for a bachelor's degree (in any field) and 1 year in a medical records administration educational program accredited by AHIMA and CAHEA meets the requirements for GS-07. OR B. Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-05): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Planning, developing, and directing a medical records program for a health care facility that meets both institutional goals and standards of accrediting agencies. Evaluating and analyzing the organization and operation of medical records services, including medical records and indexes, and recommending and/or implementing appropriate revisions and modifications. Assisting medical and administrative staff in evaluating the quality and appropriateness of patient and health care services. Designing information systems to collect, analyze, monitor, report, and maintain privacy and confidentiality of patient and institutional data for health care related programs, and evaluating and implementing changes to assure the reliability of data. Developing and implementing policies and procedures for processing legal medical documents and insurance and correspondence requests in accordance with Federal, State, and local statutes. 1 Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above? Answer to this question is required Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A. Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B. No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A or B. 2 In addition to the minimum requirements, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS/GL-07 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: &nbsp;If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts&nbsp; MUST &nbsp;be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable). ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 3 The Medical Records Administration Specialist, in a clear and concise manner, will convey technical information to individuals outside the organization in order to maintain an effective operation. He/she will coordinate with other departments within the institution and is able to communicate effectively with medical professionals, non-medical professionals, and provide training or give presentations at conferences to the immediate department or other departments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made oral presentations to small groups in the work unit; and/or I have trained new employees in departmental procedures; and/or I have reviewed health information records for problem areas and reported recommendations for improvement to the supervisor; and/or I have answered general questions regarding medical records. I have made oral presentations to individuals outside the organization; and/or I have consulted with agency personnel or private sector personnel in gathering information for procedural improvements; and/or I have provided training to other Health Services staff on health information policy and procedures. I have given an update during a formal meeting to Health Services staff on a health information related topic; and/or I have advised management on policies and procedures; and/or I have answered technical questions regarding medical records procedures. None of the above. 4 The Medical Records Administration Specialist must be able to ensure that departmental procedures and finished work are in compliance with government regulatory standards, professional standards, and either Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission (JC) standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted an in-service training session to medical and non-medical staff outside the health services department on procedures implemented to ensure compliance with regulatory or professional standards; and/or I have assisted in the development of health services departmental procedures for compliance with regulatory, professional or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission (JC) standards; and/or I have improved health information departmental procedures by ensuring regulatory, professional or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission (JC) compliance; and/or I have provided recommendations for updates to policy. I have provided input during a department meeting on health information issues; and/or I have assisted with a departmental review on medical records; and/or I have answered policy, procedural and regulatory questions from staff and the public. I have provided training to health services department staff to ensure compliance with regulatory, professional or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission (JC) standards; and/or I have reviewed work in progress or completed to ensure compliance with regulatory, professional or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission (JC) standards; and/or I have made recommendations for improvement of departmental procedures to ensure regulatory, professional or Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) or Joint Commission (JC) compliance. None of the above. 5 The Medical Records Administration Specialist must be able to assign responsibility and delegate authority to department staff in order to accomplish assigned tasks. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have provided feedback on office operations or projects; and/or I have provided assistance to department staff in resolving problems; and/or I have overseen Health Services department during a supervisor's absence. I have provided input on departmental priorities and action plans at staff meetings; and/or I have satisfactorily completed a training course on the management of human resources or basic supervision; and/or I have determined staff and equipment needs for a special project. I have prioritized workflow among available staff; and/or I have coordinated the due dates for projects; and/or I have tracked workload to ensure completion; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs. None of the above. 6 The Medical Records Administration Specialist is responsible for assisting in the development and revision of departmental policies and procedures. He/she analyzes information and make recommendations regarding policies, plan, and programs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have followed policies and methods applicable to work accomplishment; and/or I have chosen appropriate policies and methods for accomplishment of tasks; and/or I have performed audit functions of medical records and outlined findings. I have analyzed information acquired through operational reviews and recommended improvements in policies and procedures; and/or I have gathered information from other Health Services Departments and professionals related to policies and procedures for improving a specialized departmental operation (i.e., record review, scanning, release of information, etc.), and made recommendations for improvement; and/or I have assisted the supervisor or other staff in the development of policies and procedures within the Health Services Department; and/or I have determined the adequacy of written policies and procedures and provided recommendations for policy changes or procedural improvements. I have analyzed data/information from various functions within the medical records department and suggested minor revisions on current policies or procedures which enhanced the specialized departmental operation; and/or I have provided assistance to the supervisor or other staff in implementing new policies and procedures; and/or I have developed a checklist or tracking tool for aiding in the implementation of policy or a procedural change. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).