Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level as described below. I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that satisfies 100% of the qualification requirement. I do not meet the specialized experience or the education requirements described above. Specialized experience is defined as the following: 1.) Using a variety of types of office automation software, i.e., database, spreadsheet and word processing; and knowledge of the similarities, differences and integration of the different software types. Knowledge of grammar, spelling, punctuation and required formats. 2.) Performing administrative functions, including compliance with human capital policies and procedures, workforce efficiency and effectiveness studies and conflict resolution intervention. 3.) Demonstrating efficient oral and written communication by performing tasks such as generating summary reports, preparing feedback surveys, and conducting data collections and presenting findings. 4.) Developing and updating file plans and procedures for paper and electronic records so that records are organized. 2 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience gathering and organizing information. Answer to this question is required I do not have experience gathering or organizing information. I gathered and organized information in an academic role (e.g., to complete assignments, write papers), but have not applied this skill in my professional work. I gathered, analyzed, and organized information to complete a formal written proposal and/or oral presentation. I have reviewed and prioritized information I gathered to create a standard presentation delivered by others (e.g., script for call center or help desk) in a professional setting. I gathered and organized information to draft standard operating procedures and/or policies. I have attended meetings with high ranking officials and VIPs to gather information and develop plans for implementing operational adjustments, such as those required by special events. 3 Describe your experience managing projects. Maximum length of 2000 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as the following: 1.) Using a variety of types of office automation software, i.e., database, spreadsheet and word processing; and knowledge of the similarities, differences and integration of the different software types. Knowledge of grammar, spelling, punctuation and required formats. 2.) Performing administrative functions, including compliance with human capital policies and procedures, workforce efficiency and effectiveness studies and conflict resolution intervention. 3.) Demonstrating efficient oral and written communication by performing tasks such as generating summary reports, preparing feedback surveys, and conducting data collections and presenting findings. 4.) Developing and updating file plans and procedures for paper and electronic records so that records are organized. 5.) Developing standard operating procedures and program evaluation plans. 2 Please provide a brief statement of how you successfully resolved the administrative problems you encountered in your current position.&nbsp; Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which response best describes your highest level of experience presenting recommendations to senior management and/or executive management and stakeholders? Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise. 4 Which of the following statements best represent your level of experience in the area of staffing and recruitment? Answer to this question is required I have a basic understanding of the staffing and recruitment (Ex: recruitment events) I have worked independently providing staffing and recruitment services to an organization in different areas of HR. I have had no direct involvement in the staffing and recruitment functions but have considerable knowledge in other areas of human resources management. I have been a representative on task forces and/or committees responsible for the development of procedures and/or policies that integrate various hiring authorities and flexibilities into an organization's human resources management program. None of the above 5 Do you have experience in using Computer based systems (software) and Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS) on a regular and recurring basis? (please list examples below) ? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No Grade: All Grades 1 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 1.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above 2 Which tasks have you performed to analyze data? Answer to this question is required Performed content analysis Performed quantitative analysis (e.g. percentages and means) Interpreted progress towards goals Created graphs/tables Developed spreadsheets Identified missing information Presented analyses in person None of the above 3 Do you have experience directing the modernization of a large organization, including overall administrative operations, technical services, project management, human capital, procurement, metrics and quality control? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which project/program management activities have you performed? (select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Developed project timelines and milestones Created project plans Monitored and evaluated contractor work Identified needed resources Prioritized program activities and goals Monitored expenditures Monitored project progress and performance Verified quality of project deliverables None of the above 5 Which&nbsp;of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing HR policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have experience gathering, evaluating and analyzing data to form conclusions and recommendations that are supported by facts. I also have experience implementing or revising policies, procedures and/or programs. I have experience conducting research and analyzing data. I have participated with others in revising policies, procedures and/or programs. I have experience performing routine research and analysis. None of the above. 6 Select the response(s) that best describes your experience in assisting with managing, directing or administering an important program or significant program segment. Answer to this question is required Assisted with developing and recommendations for program policies, strategies, and goals. Set short-range objectives for the program. Set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws. Assisted with developing program procedures and practices. Reviewed and made recommendations for standard operating procedures. None of the above. 7 Which response best describes your highest level of experience with organizational problem identification and resolution? Answer to this question is required I do not have training, education, or experience identifying or solving organizational problems. I completed training or education related to organizational problem identification or resolution, but have not applied these concepts in my work. I have identified organizational problems and notified management of the issues. I have identified organizational problems and developed solutions as part of a team. I have independently identified organizational problems and developed solutions. I have identified organizational problems and led a team to develop and implement solutions. 8 Do you have experience consulting with representatives from various departments or branches to resolve Human Capital issues that arise in the workplace? Answer to this question is required Yes 8.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 9 Do you have experience helping staff meet requirements for records management? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 What types of administrative problems have you encountered and successfully resolved? Answer to this question is required Discrepancies in data Misreporting data (e.g., oversimplification, incomplete) Miscommunication of critical information Illegal or unethical behavior None of the above 11 Please select answer(s) that describe your experience managing and resolving issues to minimize negative impact. Answer to this question is required I have experience dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile or distressed. I have experience interacting and working with multiple levels of co-workers, supervisors and high level management. I have experience identifying and responding to critical events with diplomacy and action. I have experience staying with a position or plan of action until the desired objective was achieved or it was no longer reasonably attainable. I have experience persuading others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints. I do not have experience in none of the above 12 Have you&nbsp;served in a capacity&nbsp;facilitating group discussions, sharing information, and providing briefings and presentations to senior management. Answer to this question is required Yes 12.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 13 From the list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables or work assignments. Provided direction, guidance or instruction to staff. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques to improve operations. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile or distressed. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Identified common interests None of the above 14 In which situations have you delivered oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Briefings Work groups Interdepartmental meetings Department-wide training None of the Above 15 Which response best describes your highest level of experience drafting and editing written documents in a professional setting? Answer to this question is required I completed training related to professional writing or editing skills. I have drafted documents, submitted them to others for review, and made the necessary grammar, formatting, and spelling corrections. I have reviewed others' documents for spelling and grammar and submitted the document to the originator for correction. I have reviewed others' documents for clarity, organization, and formatting and submitted the document to the originator for correction. None of the above. 16 Which of the following statements describe the written communication skills that you have used as a regular part of your job? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Drafted reports, memorandum, and correspondence for signature by higher level officials. Developed written materials for briefings, meetings, and/or conferences. Produced documents clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively written for varied audiences. Communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and/or priorities in writing. Composed complex correspondence and other written materials such as manuals, management reports, and articles. Prepared and wrote technical reports for internal and external audiences. Explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and/or recommendations in written format. Reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. Compiled and summarized the findings of studies. None of the above 17 Choose all&nbsp;examples that match your experience preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical/technical reports for internal audiences. I have drafted information for inclusion in a project status report. I have written a project status report for presentation to senior management. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade readers. I have gathered and drafted information for issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at various levels. I have reviewed and edited reports and correspondence for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.