Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to Analyze Administrative Problems and Manage Data.** Identified administrative needs or problems, analyzed and synthesized information, identified implications and observed patterns, and drew conclusions explaining facts, data, or information. Answer to this question is required ROUTINELY analyzed administrative data as well as programs, processes, and procedures. This analysis included the identification of issues and/or problems, researching potential solutions, and making recommendations . OCCASIONALLY analyzed administrative data as well as programs, processes, and procedures. This analysis included the identification of issues and/or problems and researching potential solutions. CONTRIBUTED to the review or evaluation of an administrative program, policy, or procedure by gathering and compiling data. None of the Above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to Work Collaboratively.** Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals to respond to requests and to ensure deadlines and requirements were met. Answer to this question is required Has extensive experience collaborating and liaising with managers, staff, and others inside and outside an organization to ensure responsiveness to staff needs. Communicated and negotiated assignments and deadlines. Has some experience collaborating and liaising with individuals both inside and outside an organization to ensure responsiveness to staff needs. Communicated and negotiated assignments and deadlines. Has some experience collaborating with individuals primarily within an organization to ensure responsiveness to staff needs. None of the Above 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to Attend to Detail.** Verified the accuracy, completeness, and format of information and database content. This included checking facts and sources or identifying missing or inconsistent information by reviewing documents, data, tables, forms, or lists, etc. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, completed REVIEW of administrative documents and data to verify the accuracy and completeness of CONTENT AND FORMAT. Identified errors or gaps in information or data and reported those inconsistencies to management. As a primary job responsibility, completed REVIEW of administrative documents and data to verify the accuracy and completeness of CONTENT OR FORMAT. Identified errors or gaps in data and reported those inconsistencies to others for further action. As part of job responsibilities, reviewed administrative documents to verify and ensure the accuracy of FORMAT, including pagination, graphics, and overall presentation. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to Utilize Computer Technology.** Utilized technological tools and business system applications to respond to inquiries, prepare documents and presentations, conduct analyses, and maintain databases. These tools and applications include: 1) word-processing (e.g., Word); 2) email (e.g., Outlook); 3) electronic calendar; 4) spreadsheets (e.g., Excel); 5) presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint); 6) graphics packages (e.g., Photoshop, Publisher); and 7) Web-based collaborative work tools (e.g., SharePoint, client relationship management software) or Web development program (e.g., SharePoint). Answer to this question is required Have experience using ALL of the above. Have experience using, AT LEAST 1) through 6) of the above. Have experience using AT LEAST 1) THROUGH 4) of the above. None of the Above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to Apply Administrative Processes and Techniques. Served as an administrative support professional, responsible for coordination of work activities for an office including: 1) supporting management and staff; 2) ensuring administrative requirements and deadlines are met; 3) helping maintain long-term project/planning calendar; 4) supporting administrative systems and processes; 5) scheduling and preparing materials for meetings; 6) arranging meeting logistics; and 7) maintaining official correspondence and files. Answer to this question is required Performed ALL of the administrative work activities listed above in an office setting. These activities were routinely performed in direct support of management. Performed AT LEAST FIVE of the administrative work activities listed above, in an office setting. These activities were occasionally performed in direct support of management. Performed AT LEAST THREE of the administrative activities listed above in an office setting in support of management. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to Communicate in Writing. Wrote or prepared materials such as 1) memoranda; 2) email; 3) management reports or procedures, and other tailored writing for such purposes; 4) Web-based collaborative work; 5) graphics; and 6) other data presentations, conforming to the basic rules of spelling, grammar, and punctuation Answer to this question is required INDEPENDENTLY drafted and reviewed ALL of the product types above. ASSISTED in drafting and reviewing AT LEAST FOUR of the product types above. ASSISTED in drafting AT LEAST TWO of the products types above. None of the Above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).