Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 03 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have completed one full academic year of post high school study or associate's degree as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Student Trainee must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have scheduled an appointment using email; and/or I have responded to an on-line advertisement; and/or I have written a memorandum providing general information about an upcoming meeting. I have completed a written assignment/project; and/or I have completed a resume or application; and/or I have completed an evaluation for a specific educational course. I have assisted others with preparing a written memorandum; and/or I have assisted a colleague with a resume or application; and/or I have prepared a writing assignment for a general educational course. None of the above. 3 The Student Trainee receives inquiries from individuals throughout all levels of the organization, as well as the general public. The Student Trainee must be able to communicate professionally and must be able to answer inquires in a clear and consistent manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given feedback in a group discussion about an assignment; and/or I have given a presentation on general material during a meeting; and/or I have answered phone inquiries and provided specific information. I have presented an oral book report/presentation as part of a group; and/or I have assisted other students in work study; and/or I have answered inquiries regarding general study courses. I have shared notes regarding a group discussion; and/or I have answered phone calls and transferred to the appropriate source; and/or I have showed others how to create and maintain a log. None of the above. 4 The Student Trainee must be able to utilize various computer applications to complete work assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed basic research using the internet; and/or I have maintained/updated personal computerized documents (checkbook, resume); and/or I have maintained a running log for reports using a word processing software. I have used an electronic mail system to generate e-mails; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted forms using a word processing application; and/or I have prepared documentation for reports using a word processing software. I have retrieved voicemail messages from a voicemail system; and/or I have reproduced copies of documents utilizing a copy machine; and/or I have scanned paper documents using a computer scanner. None of the above. Grade: 04 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have completed two full academic years of post high school study or associate's degree as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the education requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: All applicants must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Student Trainees must communicate with people of various backgrounds by writing in a clear and concise manner, while following established rules and guidelines. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have written a portion of a group report; and/or I have maintained track of assignments using a computer-based program; and/or I have completed a college level writing course. I have completed a written assignment/project; and/or I have completed a resume or application; and/or I have completed an evaluation for a specific educational course. I have assisted others with preparing a written memorandum; and/or I have assisted a colleague with a resume or application; and/or I have prepared a writing assignment for a general educational course. None of the above. 3 The Student Trainee receives inquiries from individuals throughout all levels of the organization, as well as the general public. The Student Trainee must be able to communicate professionally and must be able to answer inquires in a clear and consistent manner. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have given feedback in a group discussion about an assignment; and/or I have given a presentation on general material during a meeting; and/or I have answered phone inquiries and provided specific information I have given a presentation during a public speaking course; and/or I have presented information from a student survey to improve classroom environment; and/or I have used PowerPoint to present information to other students. I have presented an oral book report/presentation as part of a group; and/or I have assisted other students in work study; and/or I have answered inquiries regarding courses None of the above. 4 The Student Trainee must be able to utilize various computer applications to complete work assignments. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have used an electronic mail system to generate e-mails; and/or I have prepared pre-formatted forms using a word processing application; and/or I have prepared documentation for reports using a word processing software. I have performed basic research using the internet; and/or I have maintained/updated personal computerized documents (checkbook, resume); and/or I have maintained a running log for reports using a word processing software. I have modified existing tables, charts or graphs using computer software; and/or I have created letters or reports using word processing software; and/or I have entered or retrieved information from a database. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).