Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments. I have supervised journeyman workers in a specific line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers. I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew. None of the above. 3 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have researched information related to possible careers in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have completed the interview process for a position in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have submitted an application to a vacancy announcement for a position dealing directly with inmates at a correctional facility; and/or I have attended a law enforcement career fair; and/or I have completed a college course in corrections, law enforcement, or other related field. I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have obtained a degree in criminology or other related area; and/or I have worked in a correctional facility; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization. I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes, and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems. None of the above. 4 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have a variety of experience in the optic manufacturing industry. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under general supervision, I have operated lens generators and lens edger in the manufacture of prescription glasses; and/or I have operated grinding equipment; and/or I have operated lensometer to ensure proper performance of the lens. I have experience operating a lens generator and lens edger in a competitive commercial setting where production quotas were a prime consideration; and/or I have trained new employees on using lens generators and related prepping equipment; and/or I have assigned employees to job based on their level of competence and skill; and/or I have inspected lens blanks to detect flaws. I have general knowledge of corrective ophthalmic appliances; and/or I have prepared lenses for prescription eyeglasses with supervision; and/or I have prepared related equipment for use in production. None of the above. 5 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the ability to fill prescriptions for ophthalmic lenses, dispensing Safety eyeglasses, to achieve a high quality finished product designed to meet rigid specification standards. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have experience working in a shop doing commercial or industrial eyeglass manufacturing; and/or I have experience in standardized operation of (1) Optical machine set-up (2) Operating optical equipment (3) Assembly of lenses to frames; and/or I have planned and layed out work from prescriptions, optical data, and written instructions. I have experience as a supervisor or foreman in a shop reading prescriptions for glasses Optometrists; and/or I have selected correct lens, and frame, and loading jobs into Optical computer system; and/or I have processed jobs to the precise prescription requirements, by cutting, polishing, beveling, and edging the lens; and/or I have mounted, secured, and aligned finished lenses in frames, using precision hand tools. I have worked as an operator or helper under close supervision; and/or I have prepared simple eyeglasses for assembly; and/or I have coated lenses with protective coating liquids. None of the above. 6 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the ability to use measuring instruments to determine the thickness, prescription, and appearance of finished eyeglasses, where rigid specification and standards exist. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have made adjustments to cycle times, cutting tolerance, and pressures; and/or I have used Lensometers and Lens Analyzers to meet more rigid appearance, thickness, and shapes of the product. I have used calipers, Lensometers, and Lens Analyzers in measuring prescription eyeglasses to extremely fine tolerances; and/or I have used geometric and trigonometric formulas to calculate sphere, cylinder, axis, Far PD, Near PD, and Segment Height. Under close supervision, I have worked with fine tolerance measuring instruments; and/or I have used Lensometers and Lens Analyzers; and/or I have identified prism, cylinder, add power and pupillary distance. None of the above. 7 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the ability to interpret oral and written instructions to determine the equipment, procedures, and processes required to accomplish a high quality finished product. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under close supervision, I have performed routine lens manufacturing operations; and/or I have used basic equipment to polish and edge lenses to complete work; and/or I have completed assignments based on supervisor instructions. I have made lens and frame substitutions when needed; and/or I have inspected, weighed and measured mounted or unmounted lenses after completion to verify alignment and conformance to specifications, using precision instruments. I have followed instruction in manufacturers' prescription eyeglasses and written instructions to prepare equipment and raw material for the manufacture of optical lenses and eyeglass frames; and/or I have completed work through the use of work orders with appropriate drawings and prescriptions; and/or I have read dimensions and understand optical terms for vision and eyewear. None of the above. 8 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the ability to use and maintain optical manufacturing equipment, tools, and other trade related machinery to produce a precision product. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have worked in all phases of a plastic shop; and/or I have fabricated backup tools to make repairs; and/or I have made eyeglasses from a variety of materials. I have successfully examined/determined and identified defects in equipment and resolved issues; and/or I have made complicated eyeglasses from a variety of materials; and/or I have created scale models of objects. Under close supervision, I have worked as an operator in a manufacturing environment; and/or I have used lens generators, surfacing, polishing and lens edger's to cut and trim materials; and/or I have used drills, files, and rollers to accomplish final fabrication. None of the above. 9 Prescription Eyeglass Maker Supervisors must have the ability to use knowledge of prescription eyeglass manufacturing processes and materials needed to produce a finished product designed to meet rigid specification. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. Under close supervision, I have worked as an operator in a optical lab; and/or I have knowledge of common lens types such as Polycarbonate lenses, High index plastic lenses, Aspheric lenses, Photochromic lenses; and/or I have knowledge of common frame types such as safety and fashion. I have knowledge of the qualities of corrective lenses and the manufacture of prescription eyeglasses; and/or I have knowledge of the characteristics and properties of lens coating, tints, and eyeglass frames. I have successfully performed the manufacture of Prescription eyeglasses. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).