Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to conduct legal or legislative research.** Used various print and electronic sources to locate, verify, and research accurate and timely legal, legislative, and/ or regulatory information related to the laws and legal systems of relevant foreign jurisdictions. Sources and subjects included: 1) statutory materials, 2) regulations, 3) legislative records, 4) judicial decisions and law reports, 5) legal databases, 6) international law, 7) treaties and agreements, 8) legal writings, and 9) comparative law. Answer to this question is required In a professional capacity, routinely used various authoritative print and electronic sources, including ALL of the above to prepare scholarly-type legal research projects related to relevant foreign jurisdictions. In a professional capacity, have experience using various authoritative print and electronic sources, including SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above to prepare scholarly-type legal research projects related to relevant foreign jurisdictions. In a professional capacity, used both print and electronic sources, including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above, to prepare scholarly-type legal research projects related to relevant foreign jurisdictions. None of the Above 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Ability to communicate in writing.** Independently wrote various reports or analyses on complex issues related to the laws and legal systems of foreign jurisdictions. Examples include: 1) legal memos, 2) briefs, 3) opinions, 4) comparative analyses, 5) research analyses, 6) briefing papers, 7) evaluation of legislative proposals, and 8) articles covering a complex issue for a major legal publication. Answer to this question is required In a professional capacity, independently wrote AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above, including an in-depth analysis of a complex issue related to the laws and legal system of foreign jurisdictions. In a professional or academic capacity, independently wrote THREE (3) of the above, including an in-depth analysis of a complex issue related to the laws and legal system of foreign jurisdictions. In a professional or academic capacity, independently wrote TWO (2) of the above, including an in-depth analysis of a complex issue related to the laws and legal system of foreign jurisdictions. None of the Above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Ability to convey legal analysis and information orally through briefings, consultations, and other presentations. Conveyed analysis or information orally through briefings and presentations, in both planned and extemporaneous situations, to discuss or explain complex legal and legislative issues related to foreign jurisdictions. Answer to this question is required Presented complex legal and legislative analysis or information related to foreign jurisdictions to professional audiences in both planned and extemporaneous situations. For example, taught at a law school within the area; contributed at seminars or professional conferences; AND made presentations to management officials or clients; OR equivalent experience. Presented complex analysis or information related to laws of foreign jurisdictions in a structured setting to management, clients and/or colleagues in your field. Examples include discussing various legislative issues with peers, clients and/or management and contributing at seminars or professional conferences; OR equivalent experience. Occasionally presented complex analysis or information related to foreign jurisdictions to audiences with varying levels of expertise. For example, discussing various legislative and legal issues with peers; contributing at seminars or professional conferences; OR equivalent experience. None of the Above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Participated in major collaborative legal and legislative research studies or other major projects related to foreign jurisdictions. Answer to this question is required Participated in multiple major collaborative research studies or major projects in a diverse, multi-disciplinary work setting related to the analysis, synthesis, or interpretation of law or legislation of foreign jurisdictions. The studies or projects required collaboration with colleagues from multiple disciplines and from within and outside own work unit. The study or project teams included members from a variety of cultural backgrounds. Participated in multiple collaborative research studies or major projects in a work setting related to laws or legislation of foreign jurisdictions. The study or project teams involved colleagues from more than one discipline within own work unit and included members from a variety of cultural backgrounds. Participated in multiple collaborative research studies or major projects related to laws or legislation of foreign jurisdictions. The studies or projects involved colleagues within a single discipline. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to plan, organize, and coordinate in a high pressure environment. Independently planned, organized, and coordinated research activities in a high pressure work environment. This included setting priorities among multiple tasks, determining short and long-term priorities, negotiating deadlines and competing priorities, and completing activities under tight deadlines. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized, and coordinated multiple complex legal research activities in a high pressure work environment, including setting priorities among multiple tasks, determining short and long-term priorities, negotiating deadlines and competing priorities, and completing activities under tight deadlines. Independently planned and organized multiple legal research activities in a high pressure work environment, including setting priorities among multiple tasks, negotiating deadlines and competing priorities, and completing activities under tight deadlines. Independently planned and organized own research work activities in a high pressure environment, including setting priorities among multiple tasks and completing activities under tight deadlines. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to verify accuracy of detailed information. Verified the accuracy of detailed, complex information or data in print and electronic documents, reports, tables, lists, and/or databases. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated compliance with professional standards in reviewing the accuracy of detailed, complex information and data from multiple sources for collaborative legal research products related to foreign jurisdictions, laws, legislation, and regulations. These products were distributed to clients inside and outside the organization. Verified the accuracy of detailed, complex information and data from multiple sources for own legal research products related to foreign jurisdictions, laws, legislation, and regulations. These products were distributed to clients inside and outside the organization. Verified the accuracy of detailed, complex information and data from multiple sources for own legal research products related to foreign jurisdictions, laws, legislation, or regulations. These products were distributed within an organization. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).