Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to implement interior design projects.** Coordinated project support requirements and facilitated implementation amongst cross-functional groups and organizations, e.g., engineers, multiple trades, and contractors in a commercial and/or federal environment. Answer to this question is required Managed projects in a federal environment involving at least FIVE of the following project support requirements: 1) space plan, 2) electrical, 3) building partitions, 4) carpentry, 5) furniture installation, 6) wall and flooring finishes, and 7) phone and data installation. Projects met goals in terms of scope, time, and budget. Managed projects in a commercial environment involving at least FIVE of the following project support requirements: 1) space plan, 2) electrical, 3) building partitions, 4) carpentry, 5) furniture installation, 6) wall and flooring finishes, and 7) phone and data installation. Projects met goals in terms of scope, time, and budget. Managed projects in a commercial or federal environment involving THREE or FOUR of the following project support requirements: 1) space plan, 2) electrical, 3) building partitions, 4) carpentry, 5) furniture installation, 6) wall and flooring finishes, and 7) phone and data installation. Projects met goals in terms of scope, time, and budget. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize industry standard CAD software and other technology to support space planning and interior design work.** Ability to utilize industry standard CAD software and other technology to support interior design, space planning, and engineering work including: 1) preparing detailed drawings delineating furniture, partitions, carpet, utilities, security requirements, code analysis &amp; drawings for custom items; 2) creating demand work orders (DWOs) to support facility plan projects in an automated work order system; 3) developing scaled floor plans needed in the execution and documentation of new construction and/or renovation projects; 4) developing building information models and utilizing Geographic Information Systems; 5) tabulating furniture &amp; equipment requirements &amp; preparing technical specifications for purchase requisitions; and 6) preparing plans, work requests &amp; contractor support documentation to facilitate a move. Answer to this question is required Demonstrated the ability to utilize industry standard CAD software and other technology to support interior design, space planning, and engineering work and to produce designs and projects through the performance of at least FIVE of the above, including #3) developing scaled floor plans needed in the execution of new construction and/or renovation project Demonstrated the ability to utilize industry standard CAD software and other technology to support interior design, space planning, and engineering work and to produce designs and projects through the performance of FOUR of the above, including #3) developing scaled floor plans needed in the execution of new construction and/or renovation projects. Demonstrated the ability to utilize industry standard CAD software and other technology to support interior design, space planning, and engineering work and to produce designs and projects through the performance of THREE of the above, including #3) developing scaled floor plans needed in the execution of new construction and/or renovation projects. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with others. Ability to work with customers, support services and contractors (e.g., electrical support, carpentry, plumbing, air conditioning, voice data, and/or furniture and finish contractors) and participate in meetings and conferences with others for pre-proposal conferences, budget, planning and/or project meetings. Answer to this question is required Worked with customers, support services, and contractors such as electrical support, carpentry, plumbing, air conditioning, voice data, and/or furniture and finish providers. Collaborated with others including the Architect of the Capitol, for pre-proposal conferences, budget planning, and project meetings. Worked with customers, support services, and contractors such as electrical support, carpentry, plumbing, air conditioning, voice data, and/or furniture and finish providers. Collaborated with others for pre-proposal conferences, budget planning and project meetings. Worked with customers and others providing support services such as electrical support, carpentry, plumbing, air conditioning, voice data, and/or furniture and finish providers. Collaborated with others for project meetings. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to perform space planning and interior design functions. Provided a full range of commercial and/or federal interior design services (from programming through design development) in performing space planning and design work. Answer to this question is required Gathered and analyzed information to prepare feasibility studies for various space design projects; developed design plans including block layouts, space diagrams, typical workstation layouts and detailed furniture, telecommunication and electrical plans required for project implementation. Prepared comprehensive interior design packages including: 1) presentation packages, 2) furniture specifications, 3) finish schedules, and 4) cost estimates. Gathered and analyzed information to prepare feasibility studies for space design projects; ASSISTED in developing design plans including block layouts, space diagrams, typical workstation layouts and detailed furniture, telecommunication and electrical plans required for project implementation. Prepared interior design packages including at least THREE of the following: 1) presentation packages, 2) furniture specifications, 3) finish schedules and/or 4) cost estimates. ASSISTED OTHERS with gathering and analyzing information to prepare feasibility studies for space design projects; WORKED UNDER THE DIRECTION of higher-graded employee in developing design plans including block layouts, space diagrams, typical workstation layouts and detailed furniture, telecommunication and electrical plans required for project implementation. Prepared interior design packages including at least THREE of the following: 1) presentation packages, 2) furniture specifications, 3) finish schedules and/or 4) cost estimates. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Knowledge of regulations, policies, codes, CAD standards, and procedures associated with interior design and project implementation for commercial and/or federal buildings. Applied knowledge of regulations, policies, codes, CAD standards, and procedures applicable to interior design projects concerning: 1) construction; 2) contracts and procurement; 3) space planning and drafting; 4) safety and accessibility standards; and 5) ergonomics in commercial and/or federal buildings. Answer to this question is required Applied knowledge of regulations, policies, codes, CAD standards, and procedures applicable to interior design projects concerning at least FOUR of the above in federal building(s). Project(s) successfully received applicable approvals. Applied knowledge of regulations, policies, codes, CAD standards, and procedures applicable to interior design projects concerning at least FOUR of the above in commercial building(s). Project(s) successfully received applicable approvals. Applied knowledge of regulations, policies, codes, CAD standards, and procedures applicable to interior design projects concerning THREE of the above in commercial and/or federal building(s). Project(s) successfully received applicable approvals OR received formal and/or informal training related to applicable approvals. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Ability to effectively plan, direct and manage a variety of projects given limited time and resources. Planned and managed design and construction-related functions, such as managing schedules, budget, and material resources. In doing so: 1) identified issues, problems, challenges, and opportunities; 2) designed and planned the project; 3) defined project deliverables; 4) managed project requirements and stakeholder expectations; 5) facilitated discussions working towards solutions; 6) monitored project deliverables. Answer to this question is required Planned and managed design and construction-related functions, such as managing schedules, budget, and material resources, including ALL of the above. Managed a single design and/or construction project, including managing schedules, budget and material resources, including FOUR (4) of the above. Assisted in the management of one or more design and/or construction projects, including managing schedules budget and material resources, including THREE (3) of the above None of the Above 14 In the box below, please describe how your education, experience and/or training demonstrate your knowledge of librarianship and information science, the use of emerging technologies, and your participation in teamwork. Your response provides a writing sample to selecting officials. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 5000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Association LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 16 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).