Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Pipefitter without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 This position requires that the incumbent possess a valid state or District of Columbia driver's license in order to transport materials, equipment or staff to job sites. Do you have a valid state or District of Columbia driver's license? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included a copy of your Drivers&rsquo; License (Front &amp; Back) and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following best describes your experience, education or training performing Pipefitter duties Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training performing Pipefitter duties. I have experience performing Pipefitter duties independently as a regular part of my job I have been educated or trained to perform Pipefitter duties. I have experience performing Pipefitter duties under close supervision. I have trained others to perform Pipefitter duties and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following types of piping systems have you performed repairs, installations and/or preventive maintenance? Answer to this question is required Low Pressure Steam High Pressure Steam Condensate Return Systems Air Handling Unit Fire Sprinkling Systems Circulating Pumps Sewage Systems Steam Boiler Hot Water Boiler Gas System None of the above 6 Which of the following plumbing systems do you have experience working with? Answer to this question is required Drain, waste and vent lines Domestic water systems, supply lines Water heating systems Trap primers Toilets and urinals None of the above 7 Do you have experience working with victrolic pipe? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which of the following certifications and/or licenses do you currently possess? Answer to this question is required Gas Fitter Back Flow Journeyman License Stationary Engineering License ACM Certification None of the above 9 Which of the following settings do you have experience performing pipefitting and plumbing related preventive or predictive maintenance services? Answer to this question is required Residential Light Commercial Commercial Industrial None of the above 10 Which of the following types of construction do you have experience with? Answer to this question is required New Construction Remodeling/Retro fit Repair/Maintenance None of the above 11 Which of the following best describes your education or training in the pipefitting trade? Answer to this question is required I attended a Vocational/Technical College for Pipefitting, I attended an Apprenticeship Program for Pipefitting. I attended a Trade School for Pipefitting I received on the job training as a Pipefitter None of the above. 12 Which of the following types of mechanical drawings do you have experience in using? Answer to this question is required Building Plans Blueprints Engineering Diagrams Schematics Sketches Plumbing Diagrams None of the above 13 Which of the following computer software programs and/or applications have you used as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Email Spreadsheets Internet Search Engines Word Processing Databases Auto-Cadd None of the above 14 Which of the following responses best describes your highest level of experience utilizing mechanical drawings to plan and layout the routine replacement and proper operation of systems and equipment? Answer to this question is required I have experience utilizing building plans for general layout with minimal supervision I have experience utilizing building plans for general layout and reconfiguring existing systems with minimal supervision I have independently utilized building plans for general layout and reconfiguring existing systems I have independently utilized building plans for general layout, reconfiguring existing systems and document changes to the drawings I have no experience utilizing building plans for general layout. 15 Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience performing pipefitting installation, repair and maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have installed, repaired and performed maintenance on piping systems with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group I have assisted others in installing, repairing and maintaining piping systems I have independently installed, repaired and maintained piping systems I have no experience installing, repairing or performing maintenance on a piping system. I have overseen and monitored the work of others installing, repairing and maintaining piping systems I have led or supervised the work of others installing, repairing and maintaining piping systems 16 Which of following types of tools have you used a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Drain cleaning machine (snake) Pipe Threader Hand tools (Hammer, pipe wrenches, screwdrivers) Fiber optic camera systems Crimping tools Basic power tools (drill, reciprocating saw) Arial lifts Torches None of the above 17 Which of the following best describes your experience troubleshooting and/or tracing out piping systems? Answer to this question is required I have independently used fiber optic cameras, infrared camera, non-contact thermometer I have assisted others in troubleshooting, tracing leaks and blockage in piping systems I have overseen and monitored the work of others troubleshooting piping systems I have no experience in troubleshooting piping systems 18 Which of the following steam pressure ranges are you most familiar working with? Answer to this question is required 0-15 psi 16-30 psi 31-100 psi 101-200 psi Over 200 psi None of the above 19 Which of the following statements best reflects your highest level of experience working in a building environment performing pipefitting related troubleshooting and repair? Answer to this question is required I have performed Pipe fitting related troubleshooting and repair with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have assisted others in performing pipe fitting related troubleshooting and repair I have independently performed routine pipe fitting related troubleshooting and repair I have overseen and monitored the work of others performing pipe fitting related troubleshooting and repair I have led the work of others performing pipe fitting related troubleshooting and repair I have no experience performing pipe fitting related troubleshooting and repairs. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.