Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select which of the following United States government (USG) agencies / commissions you have interacted with to facilitate U.S. foreign policy and programmatic development involving international narcotics trafficking and crime: Answer to this question is required U.N. Office of Drugs and Crimes (UNODC) Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) The Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (CCPCJ) Department of Justice (DoJ) Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) Other USG Agencies None of the above 2 Which of the following BEST describes your skills in providing program direction for bilateral narcotics and anti-crime assistance programs? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have routinely and independently performed this task as regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 3 Which of the following BEST describes your background preparing and presenting the results of analyses on international narcotics trafficking, crime issues, and counterterrorism (or terrorism prevention)? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 4 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in coordinating interagency policy or policy documents. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and policy documents as a regular part of my job, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and policy documents, having trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 5 Select the choice that BEST represents your highest level of experience in managing and interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with both external and internal management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. I have experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input? Answer to this question is required I have no experience coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, or briefing materials with interagency input. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me performing this task. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, with review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently coordinated interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input, usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at coordinating interagency policy and recommendations, and briefing materials with interagency input. I have trained others in performing this task and/or others consult me as an expert for assistance. 7 Which of the following BEST describes your background coordinating, formulating and implementing cybercrime policy? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in coordinating, formulating or implementing cybercrime policy. I have education or training in coordinating, formulating and implementing cybercrime policy, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely coordinated, formulated and implemented cybercrime policy as a regular part of my job with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently coordinated, formulated and implemented cybercrime policy as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in coordinating, formulating and implementing cybercrime policy, having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your experience and ability to provide high level guidance in the implementation of Department policies and programs on international narcotics and crime issues? Answer to this question is required I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have routinely and independently performed this task as regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. None of the above. 9 Which of the following best describes your background in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in Foreign policy / International affairs. I have education or training in Foreign policy/ International affairs, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely and independently performed work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing work in the realm of Foreign policy / international affairs, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 10 From the list below, choose the statement that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or training in developing and coordinating bilateral / multilateral projects or programs on stemming corruption and promoting a transparent rule of law. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in developing and coordinating bilateral / multilateral projects or programs on stemming corruption and promoting a transparent rule of law. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job, usually under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job and usually without review by a supervisor or senior co-worker. Developing and coordinating projects or programs on stemming corruption and promoting a transparent rule of law has been a major part of my work. I have routinely and independently performed this task, and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in this area . 11 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level of experience negotiating complex issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience negotiating complex issues. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus across the government. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems that have a government-wide impact. I have experience negotiating complex issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus across the government , and reaching solutions to controversial issues. None of the above. 12 Select the choice which BEST describes your experience in negotiating or promoting U.S. policy positions in bilateral and multilateral negotiations with foreign governments: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 13 Which of the following BEST describes your background researching foreign affairs issues related to civilian security, global criminal justice, conflict monitoring, and human rights? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience performing this task. I have education or training in this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I have instructed or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. 14 Which of the following statements describes your highest level of work experience at preparing written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in preparing written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues, under the supervision of a more senior officer. I have routinely and independently written briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues, with no supervision necessary and with very few edits from others more senior to me. I am highly skilled at writing briefing materials for senior officials on policy and multilateral issues, and training and supervising others who are tasked with this work. 15 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience in monitoring and evaluating foreign assistance programs / projects? Answer to this question is required I have no work experience in monitoring and evaluating foreign assistance programs / projects. I have participated as a team member in monitoring and evaluating foreign assistance programs / projects, but have never designed or developed the scope of work. I have participated as a team member in designing, monitoring and evaluating foreign assistance programs / projects. I have lead a team in designing, monitoring and evaluating foreign assistance programs / projects. I have supervised a unit that was responsible for designing, monitoring and evaluating foreign assistance programs / projects. I have independently designed, monitored and evaluated foreign assistance programs / projects. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 16 Which of the following best describes your depth of experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the foreign policy community? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in performing this task. I have the education or training in performing this task, but have yet to perform it on the job. I have routinely performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually under the guidance or review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task, having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 17 Which of the following best describes your background in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources? Answer to this question is required I do not have education, training or experience in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources. I have education or training in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have education or training in the analysis and evaluation of information derived from a variety of sources, and have applied it on the job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently analyzed and evaluated information derived from a variety of sources as a regular part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at independently analyzing and evaluating information derived from a variety of sources having trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.