Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. General Services Administration U.S. General Services Administration ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Toggle navigation ABOUT GSA CAREERS HOME SPECIAL HIRING PATHS STUDENTS RECENT GRADUATES Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Applicants applying for the GS-14 grade level must meet the following requirements: Have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the nine competencies AND one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service as described below: IT SPECIALIST COMPETENCY REQUIREMENTS: Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change. Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems. Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations. Oral Communication - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant persuades others to take a particular course of action or to accept findings, recommendations, changes, or alternative viewpoints. Problem Solving - This skill is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant identifies and accommodates technology and resource constraints. Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals. Technical Competence – Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: To qualify, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience. Specialized experience is defined as: Developing, testing, debugging, and maintaining large-scale, complex digital applications and services for public-facing or enterprise environments, including data engineering, cloud-native architectures, computer hardware/software integration, cybersecurity-by-design, performance requirements, interoperability, and/or secure deployment of emerging technologies. This includes applying modern programming languages, frameworks, and technologies (e.g., Python, Go, JavaScript, TypeScript, Node.js, React, Ruby on Rails, Terraform, Next.js, HTML/CSS, Rust). Applying artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, including generative AI tools and models to develop production grade AI-enabled systems. Implementing and applying information security and privacy best practices, performing risk assessments, and ensuring compliance with security policies and standards during digital product development and deployment. Providing technical guidance and consultation on AI, data strategy, and emerging technologies to stakeholders, partner agencies, and technical teams; translating mission and business requirements into scalable, secure, and workable engineering solutions; and resolving complex technical issues involving multiple IT disciplines. 1 I have both experience demonstrating all nine competencies and I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal services. Answer to this question is required True False Grade: All Grades PLEASE NOTE: Complete all required sections and upload your documents, then navigate to the 'Review and Submit' page to select 'Submit Application'. Note that incomplete applications will not be considered. Once you submit your application, you will be forwarded to the &lsquo;Confirmation Page&rsquo; where you can download a copy of your final application package. You may edit your submission anytime before the closing deadline. If you do, you must return to the 'Review and Submit' page and select 'Submit Application' again before the closing deadline. For any mandatory long-answer questions, ensure your responses are supported by your resume. If you do not have related experience, enter "N/A" in the space provided. The system will time out after one hour of inactivity on any web page, and unsaved entries will be lost. Note that typing in a text box does not register as system activity. To save your work and return later, enter placeholder text in any empty text spaces and navigate to the next page. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Need Assistance? Questions or issues completing an application and/or submitting documentation - contact fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com or 1-866-656-6831 Monday-Friday 7AM - 7PM EST, except for Federal holidays Specific questions on the position - contact the HR representative (Monday-Friday during normal business hours) listed on the announcement, prior to the application deadline GSA.gov GSA Jobs Accessibility Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).