Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering these questions see the education and experience requirements described under the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement: Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement that is equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which demonstrates a knowledge of the immigration and/or nationality laws of the United States. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following best describes your experience with examination or adjudication of visas, immigration, or citizenship cases? Answer to this question is required I have prescreened or reviewed applicant case files prior to adjudication. I have examined applicant case files and made recommendations. I have adjudicated cases to completion. I have handled appeals / grievances of adjudicated cases. I have served in a judicial capacity to resolve appeals of visa, immigration, or citizenship cases. None of the above. 2 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education, training, or experience with U.S. immigration laws? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience in with U.S. immigration laws. I have formal training or education in or with U.S. immigration laws. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating knowledge of U.S. immigration laws. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 3 In which of the following events have you made oral presentations? Answer to this question is required Conferences Meetings Video conference Training sessions Technical assistance None of the above 4 Which option BEST reflects your highest level of experience applying program management techniques? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying program management techniques. I have completed formal education or training on this topic. However, I have not performed this task on the job. I have experience establishing program goals, analyzing program strengths and weaknesses, and drafting performance measures and plans. This work was performed under the guidance or review of a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience implementing and reporting on the status of program management initiatives and performance measures that were established by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures, and identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program. 5 From the following choices, identify those that reflect your experience in the area of training: Answer to this question is required Provided input on the development of training. Coordinated the delivery of established training efforts. Evaluated and modified training services to improve and ensure quality. Presented a portion of a training session. Served as a training instructor?and designed the course curriculum and training materials. None of the above. 6 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. 7 From the list below, identify all of the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 8 Please select from the list below situations in which you have applied knowledge of laws, regulations, and procedures: Answer to this question is required To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve or terminate programs / operations. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a programs, processes, and/or projects. To answer questions from team members on procedures, policies, and directives. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To apply knowledge of policies and procedures governing immigration and citizenship. To serve as an advisor to consular or immigration personnel on matters related to immigration and citizenship. To assist management in formulating and implementing policies and procedures. To research policy and regulatory material in complicated and controversial cases. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). To adjudicate visas, immigration, and citizenship cases. To distinguish between relevant and irrelevant facts. None of the above. 9 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits? Answer to this question is required I have no formal training, education or experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have formal training or education related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else when doing this work. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I have experience applying this knowledge to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience related to the examination and adjudication of applications for visa or immigration benefits. I routinely apply this knowledge to provide direction to others and present recommendations to senior management leadership. 10 Select the one response below that BEST describes your experience serving in a liaison capacity. Answer to this question is required As initial point-of-contact, I have functioned in a liaison capacity between the supervisor and organization staff at all levels. Served as liaison with other government agencies, state and local law enforcement officials, civic / community leaders, and individuals from the private sector. Relayed supervisors instructions, ensuring that same were carried out. Provided information concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the supervisor and obtained relevant information in a timely manner. I have served in a liaison capacity with a variety of persons inside and outside the organization for the purpose of receiving or providing information relating to the work or to resolve operating problems in connection with recurring responsibilities. I have served in a liaison capacity mainly with co-workers to exchange routine information relevant to daily work activities. None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience conceptualizing innovative solutions? Answer to this question is required I have no experience conceptualizing innovative solutions. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience conceptualizing innovative solutions that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. I have experience and/or training in conceptualizing innovative solutions, but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. 12 Evaluate your experience conducting interviews to gather pertinent information to determine eligibility. Answer to this question is required I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior investigator. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior investigator. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have no education, training, and/or experience in performing this task. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.