Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of an Automotive Mechanic without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Marine Technician without more than normal supervision. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following boat components /automotive do you have experience repairing or replacing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Sterndrive and jet drive engines Outboard Engines Inboard Engines Sensors Brake shoes or pads Propellers Shocks/Struts Complex Plumbing Systems Belts None of the above 4 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience replacing or repairing components on small boat motors? &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience independently performing the task of replacing small boat engine components as regular part of my job. I have led or monitored the work of others performing the task of replacing components, on the following small boat engines: small boat motors. I have led or monitored the work of others performing the task of replacing components, on the following small boat motors) I am considered the subject matter expert. I do not have experience, education or training performing this task. 5 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience performing automotive preventive maintenance? Answer to this question is required I have assisted automotive mechanics in performing automotive preventive maintenance. I have led or monitored the work of others performing the task of automotive preventive maintenance. I have experience independently performing automotive preventive maintenance as a regular part of my job. I have had education or training on automotive preventive maintenance but have not yet performed this task on the job. I do not have experience, education or training performing this task. 6 Which of the following boat/vessel preventive maintenance task(s) have you performed? &nbsp;&nbsp; (Check all that apply)? Answer to this question is required Testing engines, propellers, steering, and navigational equipment. Winterize boats Repairing faulty hydraulic and steering systems Troubleshooting engine and electrical problems Conducting electrical AC system maintenance Completing service records and repair documents None of the above 7 Which of the following test and measuring devices do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Digital Volt Ohm Meter Vacuum gauge Test light Tire pressure gauge Micrometers Dial indicators Battery tester Hydrometer None of the above 8 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience using a digital volt ohm meter? Answer to this question is required I have led and/or monitored the work of others using a digital volt ohm meter. I have experience using a digital volt ohm meter with supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have had education or training on the use of a digital volt ohm meter but have not yet performed this task on the job. I am considered an expert in using a digital volt ohm meter and am often consulted for advice and guidance in performing this task. I have not done any of the above tasks. 9 Do you have experience researching automotive reference manuals using an automated system? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which of the following automotive reference manuals do you have experience using? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Parts Flow charts Wire diagrams Troubleshooting guides Specifications None of the above 11 Which of the following small boat/vessel tools do you have experience using as a regular part of your job? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Air conditioning recycling machine (OBD) On-board diagnostics Lifts Basic hand tools Basic power tools Transfer Pumps None of the above 12 Do you have experience operating a recovery vehicle? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following best describes your experience troubleshooting drivability issues as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required I have experience troubleshooting vehicles with drivability issues as a regular part of my duties with no supervision. I have experience troubleshooting vehicles with drivability issues under close supervision, guidance, or as part of a team or group. I have led or monitored the work of others troubleshooting vehicles with drivability issues. I have had education or training in troubleshooting vehicles with drivability issues but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.