Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 13 level in the Federal service which is in or directly related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. This experience could have been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 2 Do you have the ability to lead or supervise? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have provided supervision to subordinate employees. I have reviewed subordinate's work. I have established deadlines for subordinate employees. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty and the requirements of the assignments, and the capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified developmental and training needs of employees. I have motivated subordinates and coworkers. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following best describes your experience acting as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting? Answer to this question is required I have had education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting on the job under close supervision by a supervisor or senior employee. I have not had experience, education or training in budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting to serve as financial advisor to members of management staff. I have acted as a member of a management staff serving as financial advisor with respect to budget formulation and execution, financial planning and accounting as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 5 Which of the following statements describe your experience as it relates to budget execution? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have tracked program expenses against the plan and identified causes of differences between the actuals and the plan. I have analyzed financial and budgetary relationships to develop recommendations for financial and budgetary actions. I have reviewed, edited, and consolidated annual and multi-year budget estimates for assigned organizations/programs into a single budget request. I have monitored the execution of a budget with different sources and types of funding such as direct multi-year appropriations, trust funds, transfers of funds from other agencies, reimbursements for services performed and other generated revenue. I have monitored obligations and expenditures of funds to ensure they are executed properly and timely. I have developed plans to realign funds to meet emergent requirements. I have evaluated requests for funding, performed tradeoff analyses and applied funding to the highest priorities. I have not done any of the above tasks. 6 Which of the following describes your experience with financial management techniques? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience evaluating internal controls. I have work experience evaluating compliance with established policies. I have work experience preparing or reviewing financial documents such as invoices, bank statements and payment vouchers. I have experience or training in accounting, auditing, finance, business, or a related field. I have not done any of the above tasks. 7 Which of the following statements apply to the financial management duties you have performed? (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Conduct audits Evaluate, tests and monitors the operations of the core financial system to assure its continued compliance with all applicable requirements Analyze fiscal data to respond to inquiries Assist in development of guidance on implementing financial management procedures Process payments in an automated financial system Monitor and track obligations and expenditures for an assigned program or project None of the above. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience with conducting a broad range of analytical/research studies related to organizational needs? Answer to this question is required I have consulted with high level personnel both private and public regarding research needs for data systems, operation efficiencies, financial management and/or resource allocation. I have attended meetings with high level personnel in public or private sectors where research studies were a topic of discussion. I have prepared information for supervisors to present to high level personnel in private or public sectors to discuss research needs. I have no experience participating in studies related to analysis and research needs for data systems, operational efficiencies, financial management and resource allocations. 9 Which of the following describes your experience in completing analytical studies? (Check 3 that apply - if more than 3 are selected no points will be awarded) Answer to this question is required I have applied fact-finding and investigative techniques in resolving issues. I have provided assistance in conducting interviews to obtain information on organizational missions, functions, and procedures. I have conducted comprehensive studies from start to finish including data collection, data analysis, coordination of team members and other interested parties, and production of interim and final evaluations. I have used qualitative and quantitative methods and other statistical approaches and techniques to assess program effectiveness. I have performed extensive research, identified critical areas of operational deficiency, and provided alternatives for developing investigative studies. I have no formal coursework or training in statistical methods and techniques. None of the above. 10 Which of the following describes your experience preparing departmental budgets? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have work experience developing a departmental budget. I have provided guidance to non-financial staff on the development of a departmental budget. I have provided analyses of the impacts of budget cuts or reductions to departmental budgets for management review. I have tracked departmental spending and provided updates to non-financial staff on the status of funds throughout a budget cycle. I have completed cost/benefit analyses for management review in the development and approval of a departmental budget. I have provided guidance to other financial staff on the development and tracking of departmental budgets and reviewed their work for accuracy. I have no experience preparing departmental budgets. 11 Which of the following tasks have you performed related to the preparation of department or unit budget justifications? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared written budget justifications to support department-level budget requests for review by senior financial staff. I have edited or reviewed written budget justifications prepared by subordinate staff or others. I have prepared written operating procedures related to the development of departmental budget justifications for use by others. I have completed training on the preparation of written budget justifications. I have no experience preparing department or unit budget justifications. 12 Which of the following best describes your experience serving as a key liaison with all levels of an organization, assuring that decisions and information are shared with appropriate persons and offices including the preparation and/or coordination of recurring and other reports and responses to senior management requests? Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as a key liaison with all levels of an organization, assuring that decisions and information is shared with appropriate persons and offices including the preparation and/or coordination of recurring and other reports and responses to senior management requests. I have experience serving as a key liaison with all levels of an organization, assuring that decisions and information is shared with appropriate persons and offices including the preparation and/or coordination of recurring and other reports and responses to management requests. I have experience serving as a key liaison with all levels of an organization. I do not have related experience. 13 How have you made recommendations to a director or high-level official based on your analyses and evaluation? Answer to this question is required I have independently assessed options and strategies and made recommendations to a director or high-level officials based my analyses and evaluation. In concert with others, I have assessed options and strategies and made recommendations to a director or high-level officials based my analyses and evaluation. I have not assessed options and strategies and have not made recommendations to a director or high-level officials based my analyses and evaluation Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.