Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Saving Lives and Keeping Families Safe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission About CPSC Job Opportunities Toggle navigation About CPSC Job Opportunities Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 GS-14 Choose the answer that best describes your experience. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience includes: 1) Leading the activities of a project, team or organizational unit; 2) executing a local or national import surveillance or compliance enforcement program; and 3) serving as a liaison to other CPSC offices and/or federal agencies to accomplish a common goal. I do not possess the experience as described above. 2 Please identify the specific position (agency/company name, position title, and dates) from your resume in which you gained your qualifying specialized experience. (The description in the duties section of your resume for this entry MUST fully address the required specialized experience in order to receive credit. "Refer to Resume" will not be acceptable.) Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Which of the following describes your highest level of experience in identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions? Answer to this question is required I have little or no experience in analyzing complex problems. I have participated with others in projects involving the application of organizational management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solution. I have independently applied organization, management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solution. I have independently applied new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems I have performed as a team leader in applying new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems. 4 Select the choice, which best describes the extent of your knowledge of the importation process and your ability to apply this knowledge to situations. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have a basic understanding of the importation process. I have a thorough understanding of the importation process, acquired through on-the-job experience and formal training, and I have routinely applied this knowledge in work situations. I have expert knowledge of the importation process, acquired from extensive supervisory/managerial experience, and I have applied this knowledge to enhance the effectiveness of my organization. 5 Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience resolving personnel issues? Answer to this question is required I have no experience resolving personnel issues. I have experience resolving minor personnel issues. I have experience resolving complex personnel issues, the resolution of which required interacting with individuals constructively. I have experience resolving complex personnel issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 6 Indicate the extent of your experience in responding to Congressional, interagency or intra-agency inquiries/complaints. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have drafted portions of responses for higher-level review on Congressional, interagency, or intra-agency inquiries based on my understanding of Federal laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures. I have written responses/testimony and represented the organization on Congressional, interagency or intra-agency inquiries based on knowledge of Federal laws, rules regulations, policies and procedures. 7 Please indicate which of the following specific types of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job by checking the appropriate boxes. Answer to this question is required Issue papers or summary reports on organizational data, which includes analysis and recommendations. Position papers on controversial issues. Budget support, justification impact, and analysis. Correspondence that consolidates input from a number of different sources (including contradictory viewpoints). Policy statements and guidance. Procedural guidance. Report findings on studies. Briefings and testimony for Congressional hearings. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems. Recommendations for solutions to policy problems. Organizational assessments. Product/Process evaluation assessments. None of the above. 8 I have made substantive oral presentations to the following audiences to defend a position, support a new approach, or similar types of oral presentations where persuasion to a particular point of view was required. Check all that apply. Answer to this question is required Employees. Team members and/or peers. Supervisors and/or managers in your organization. High-level officials in Government or private organizations. Audiences outside your organization, including conferences, public meetings, or focus groups. None of the above. 9 Indicate the extent of your experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have limited experience in building support for ideas and initiatives with key stakeholders inside and outside the organization by seeking support for ideas or initiatives under close guidance. I have sought support for ideas and initiatives from key internal and external stakeholders with the result that these ideas/initiatives have been included in major recommendations made by others. I have analyzed the pros and cons of key ideas/initiatives and clearly elucidated these options for key internal and external stakeholders with the result that the ideas/initiatives were successfully implemented. 10 Indicate the extent of your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this task. I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution. I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution. I have given formal briefings to higher level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution. 11 Indicate the extent of your experience developing comprehensive short and long range compliance enforcement&nbsp;work plans for imported products. Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency. I have had education and training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency. 12 I have effectively performed the following duties: (Please check all that apply and be prepared to provide specific examples of your experience in any of these areas if you are called for an interview). Answer to this question is required Coached and provided guidance to employees on individual and career development. Developed an annual operating budget for the organization and effectively spent funds to meet mission objectives. Set work priorities and adjusted workflow among staff to accomplish work objectives. Reviewed the work of others for technical accuracy and resolved any problems that were noted. Prepared meaningful, measurable performance objectives and standards for staff. Established effective measurement systems to monitor and adjust workload and assignments and determine methods to provide better service. Prepared annual performance appraisals and conducted appraisal sessions with staff. Evaluated existing human resource processes and reengineered/streamlined processes based on review of results. Determined office and individual training needs and determined means to address those needs. Made selections for key subordinate positions. Counseled and/or took action against employees concerning performance or conduct concerns. Rewarded employees for work accomplishments. None of the above. 13 Do you have experience evaluating programs, processes, and strategic initiatives? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Select the responses that reflect your experience in international trade. Answer to this question is required I have formal training in the operations of inspection, examination, and law enforcement activities relating to the arrival and/or departure of persons, conveyances, or merchandise through U.S. ports of entry. I have organized and analyzed complex data, which provided me with specialized experience in enforcement activities aimed at identifying and preventing importations contrary to U.S. laws, regulations, and trade agreements from entering the United States. I have extensive experience interpreting the laws and regulations of a broad range of federal, state, and local agencies relating to the admissibility of people, cargo, and conveyances. None of the above. Grade: All Grades The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). Answer to this question is required True False 6 Please self-certify your most recent performance appraisal level from a formal annual appraisal or by indicating your current performance is at least fully successful. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required Fully Successful (Pass) or better on my most recent annual performance appraisal. Less than Fully Successful (Fail) on my most recent annual performance appraisal. My current performance is at least Fully Successful (Pass) or better. I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. My current performance is less than Fully Successful (Fail). I did not receive a formal performance appraisal. I am not a current Federal employee. 7 I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current. Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, etc. may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 If you reside outside the local commuting area, this position requires that you work full-time from a home office and have high-speed Internet Access. If you are selected, can you comply with these requirements? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 I am a current Federal CPSC employee on a career or career- conditional appointment. Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Has your work schedule been full-time, i.e., 35-40 hours per week, for every position listed on your resume? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Were the instructions for CPSC Career Connection easy to understand and follow? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 How did you find out about this vacancy announcement? (Must Answer) Answer to this question is required I searched the USAJobs website. I received a USAJobs saved search email. I saw it on social media (LinkedIn, Indeed, Facebook, etc.). I saw it on CPSC Website. A CPSC employee told me about it. A friend/relative/colleague/schoolmate told me about it. I attended a Recruitment event (job fair, career expo, conference, etc.). I found it on a Job Board or Search Agent other than USAJobs. I saw it on a magazine advertisement. I found it through a Professional Organization. I saw it on a Listserve. I saw it on a University Career Website (i.e., Handshake). I found it on the Placement Office – State, Federal, College Other 15 Did you accomplish your input with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Unable to Complete 16 Did you get into CPSC Career Connection with: Answer to this question is required No Difficulty Some Difficulty Great Difficulty View Vacancy Details CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISION Office of Human Resources Management 4330 East West Highway Bethesda, MD 20814 Email: RECRUITAPPS@CPSC.GOV This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).