Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The General Manager must possess comprehensive knowledge of and understanding of the mission and goals of UNICOR. He/she must be able to manage the entire industrial operation of a specific product line(s) workload while maintaining the efficiency level and meeting the goals set by the Board of Directors and corporate management.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have adjusted manpower requirements and workload of staff or inmates which exceeded the efficiency level for different product lines in a factory or comparable setting; and/or I have analyzed the production flow and made adjustments that increased productivity and reduced manufacturing costs for multiple product lines; and/or I have reviewed financial performance reports (i.e., cost, sales, overhead and productivity) and made adjustments which resulted in exceeding the factory goals established by management or the corporation; and/or I have made industrial operation projections for the fiscal period which were adopted by management for several production lines. I have reviewed business plan and met established objectives for fiscal period for several production lines; and/or I have handled and adjusted several product lines or departments to meet production delivery cost goals/requirements for the factory; and/or I have conducted analysis to resolve production issue for two or more production lines. I have inspected multiple product lines to determine safety violations and needed response; and/or I have monitored workload to determine if production goals within a department were being met; and/or I have determined sufficient manpower resources existed for a department. None of the above. 3 The General Manager is responsible for the continuous evaluation of assigned industrial programs, the coordination of production and other related program activities and decision making which impacts the overall operations. He/she directly and indirectly supervises subordinate employees and provides opportunities for training and career enhancement. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employee’s job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have instructed a class designed to improve performance or career development using pre-established program directives and existing lesson plan. I have provided leadership training to staff at a national level; and/or I have developed incentive plans to recognize exceptional performance; and/or I have developed meaningful performance metrics to ensure accountability; and/or I have developed a mentoring program for an agency/organization; and/or I have effectively managed challenging personnel situations involving disciplinary action or performance improvement plans; and/or I have provided assignments which required community exposure (i.e., public speaking opportunities and speech preparation); and/or I have implemented a training program which improved technical skills and offered cross training opportunities to develop personal career paths; and/or I have developed a course of action/goals with subordinates to improve performance through formal training, concrete versus abstract milestones, and follow-up review sessions to ensure accountability. I have devised and implemented management staff work assignments to maximize subordinate work product or increase morale; and/or I have reorganized subordinate workforce to enhance operations/efficiency; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented a plan for improvement prior to taking official action, which resulted in improved performance; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training course that fulfilled and identified training need in subordinate workforce; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinate through formal mentoring program. None of the above. 4 The General Manager is responsible for reviewing and coordinating the development of policies, plans associated with Federal Prison Industries operations. The work involves isolating and defining systemic flaws in program areas and policies with precision and confidence. He/she analyzes a variety of information and supplements creditable information from a variety of sources. The General Manager is required to discuss conclusions with top level program managers and provide recommendations for solutions to the critical problems encountered.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have analyzed and evaluated current unit/division/office operating procedures and recommended methods to improve work, productivity and morale of subordinate employees; and/or I have updated local policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have researched current and historical data to develop alternatives or recommendations to improve current programs. I have participated as a member of a taskforce charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have reviewed Management Analysis Portal (MAP) to compare operations in similar facilities to assist in the preparation of a funding request. I have gathered and evaluated comprehensive agency/organization data and devised/implemented changes which significantly improved the program; and/or I have chaired a taskforce that analyzed complex problems involving cumbersome documentation requirements and recommended appropriate means of reducing needless or redundant paperwork; and/or I have recommended method to implement new agency/organization policy which impacted several differing divisions/units/offices. None of the above. 5 The General Manager is responsible for the interpretation and application of a variety of financial, cost and manufacturing theories, concepts, and practices to their specific product line(s) to ensure factories are operating within their operating plan. He/she must possess comprehensive skills in analyzing and providing recommendations to complex financial and manufacturing date in order to ensure the integrity and profitability of products manufactured are maintained.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have reviewed/analyzed multiple location sales, earnings, and inventory levels to project future earning potentials; and/or I have analyzed customer orders to modify future projections of earnings for multiple factories producing same or similar products; and/or I have analyzed and assessed financial data of multiple factory locations and identified/developed cost savings initiatives (i.e., developed and implemented an inventory reduction plan, reorganized manpower levels for optimum performance and cost containment); and/or I have implemented an incentive system/plan to compensate inmate workforce based on amount of finished products produced, which resulted in significant savings to the agency/organization. I have prepared written Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) for review/approval by General Manager or Program manager; and/or I have developed budget proposal and submitted for review and approval by Central Office/Headquarters; and/or I have participated in budget planning meetings. I have ensured current factory operations maintained compliance to current operating plan; and/or I have researched current financial/manufacturing trends and prepared a cost reduction proposal for further consideration (including manufacturing and staffing areas); and/or I have reviewed operating expenses (i.e., utilities and staffing costs) and prepared a written analysis for submission to Corporate Management/Senior Management officials; and/or I have determined manufacturing and financial requirements needed to activate a new factory. None of the above. 6 The General Manager must possess the ability to generate and administer new contracts and enter agency agreements with a variety of sources in order to establish and maintain the need for products manufactured by Federal Prison Industries.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have supervised contracting staff and ensured the efficient and timely receipt of raw materials; and/or I have worked with contracting officer to modify vendor contract to meet customer specifications; and/or I have participated on a team to develop interagency agreements. I have maintained existing partnerships with public and private corporations; and/or I have provided guidance to procurement staff on more efficient methods of procuring items from vendors; and/or I have identified and recommended potential ways to work with private and public corporations which could result in cost savings to Federal Prison Industries; and/or I have led efforts to obtain new interagency agreements. I have developed/initiated contracts and interagency agreements by establishing partnerships with private corporations which resulted in new business for Federal Prison Industries; and/or I have negotiated with other companies/organizations which resulted in a large contract being awarded to Federal Prison Industries; and/or I have developed and established improved methods to work with private/public agencies that saved the corporation money (i.e., less inventories, better use of government resources and more production efficiency). None of the above. 7 The General Manager meets and deals with individuals of differing backgrounds and provides guidance and direction to others, of all levels, on specific program areas. He/she must possess the skills necessary to relate technical and non-technical information to others in a manner which is understood by targeted audiences.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have represented division/region/field office/office on a national work group; and/or I have represented an agency at a hearing regarding a proposal to implement new product lines; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel on controversial/sensitive issue; and/or I have met with high level private sector decision makers on potential business opportunities; and/or I have served in a leadership role on a community involvement committee; and/or I have served on labor negotiation team; and/or I have briefed corporate management on factory operations and performance issues. I have facilitated and coordinated training for a variety of participants (i.e., management level/line staff); and/or I have negotiated resolution of issues involving managers and various departments within an agency/organization; and/or I have presented an agency/organization position paper on a streamlined procedure during a national conference/meeting; and/or I have coordinated sensitive media/public relations events in compliance with national policy/governing regulations; and/or I have resolved issues prior to escalating to a higher level. I have communicated information to individuals from differing background/religious beliefs/cultures; and/or I have communicated routine information to peers involving work activities; and/or I have interacted with other federal agency personnel on recurring issues; and/or I have participated in community-based meetings to promote agency/organization. None of the above. Grade: All Grades 1 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. Applicants who are not current Federal government employees will be covered by Non-Federal Law Enforcement retirement. Current Federal Government employees covered under Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) retirement and have not completed three years of primary LEO coverage, will not be covered by Law Enforcement Retirement while in this position. Applicants must return to a position with primary LEO position to regain coverage. Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 2 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 3 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 6 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 7 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 8 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).