Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Applicants MUST meet one of the Basic Requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each question and all possible answers and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience: (See the Qualifications section of this announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering that was 1) from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering & Technology) accredited school, or 2) that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics and chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and property of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. I completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in choice A. (Note: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in choice A). I completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. Note: To be considered, applicants MUST submit transcripts and copies of professional registration and/or licensure to verify Basic Requirements by the closing date of the announcement. 2 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements below to qualify for this position. Carefully read each possible answer for the GS-14 grade level and choose the one that best describes your experience, education, or combination of education and experience. (See the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for additional information.) Answer to this question is required I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that is related to the work of the position as described in this announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which codes and standards do you have experience applying while conducting fire protection assessments? Answer to this question is required International Building Code (IBC) International Fire Code (IFC) National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Codes and Standards American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standards Occupational Safety and Health Act Standards (OSHA) International Standards Organization (ISO) Standards None of the above 6 I have provided recommendations for incorporating fire protection requirements, codes, and standards while working with the following types of individuals: Answer to this question is required Architects Engineers Project managers Construction managers General contractors Specialty contractors Facility managers Safety specialists Property owners Authority Having Jurisdiction None of the above 7 Which of the following project management activities have you performed? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in project management. Inception. Development. Budgeting. Justification. Monitoring. Close-out. I have been involved in the development of a project plan. I have been involved in the implementation of a project plan. I have led the development of a project plan. I have led the implementation of a project plan. I have participated in the justification of a project. I have participated in an economic analysis and feasibility study. None of the above. 8 Select the environment(s) that you have experience inspecting and assessing related to fire prevention: Answer to this question is required Business occupancies Storage facilities Residences Hospitals Industrial facilities Mercantile facilities Lodging / Rooming Houses Educational facilities High security facilities None of the above 9 Which statement BEST describes your highest level of experience evaluating fire alarm systems? Answer to this question is required I have no training, education or experience evaluating fire alarm systems. I have completed training or education related to evaluating fire alarm systems, but I have not performed this task on the job. I have assisted others tasked with evaluating fire alarm systems, but I have not performed this activity independently. I have independently evaluated fire alarm systems within the United States and documented my recommendations for improvement (i.e., related to location of devices, suitability of devices, and proper activation and reporting). I have independently evaluated fire alarm systems in foreign countries and documented my recommendations for improvement (i.e., related to location of devices, suitability of devices, and proper activation and reporting). I had final review and approval of the results of others fire alarm system evaluations, which included making the determination of whether findings and recommendations were accurate and if all factors were considered. 10 Which statement BEST describes your highest level of experience applying fire protection engineering concepts to develop mitigation plans for existing buildings? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying fire engineering concepts to develop mitigation plans. I have completed training or education related to the development of mitigation plans, but I have not yet performed this task on the job. I have suggested mitigation solutions to more senior team members who were responsible for developing mitigation plans. I have developed mitigation plans to recommend rectifications when a building did not meet code and submitted them to management for approval. I had final review and approval of mitigation plans developed by others which included making the determination of whether risks were acceptable and making changes to the plan prior to approval. 11 Select the technical activities that you have performed in the execution of your work in fire protection: Answer to this question is required Developed comprehensive fire prevention management programs. Conducted assessment and evaluations to determine the presence of fire hazards and life safety building deficiencies. Identified the need and managed the justification and acquisition of new equipment. Managed the collection of data and analysis and made them useful to higher management for decision making. Identified the fire protection requirement differences between host countries and the United States. None of the above 12 Which choice BEST reflects your highest level of experience working in teams? Answer to this question is required My experience did not require me to work as part of a team. I have experience working in teams that required cooperating with team members and the occasional coordination of activities. I have experience working in teams that required interacting with team members constructively and periodically reaching consensus. I have experience working in teams that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively and solving problems as a group. I have experience leading teams that required building team spirit and cohesiveness, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse members, and reaching solutions to controversial issues. 13 What is the largest team that you have worked with to complete a project? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working on a team. 1 to 3 people 4 to 6 people 7 to 10 people More than 10 people 14 Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in managing and monitoring a budget for an organization: Answer to this question is required I have developed and justified a multi-year budget for an organization. I have been responsible for cost analysis and developing an operating budget for an organization with a variety of program elements. I have been responsible for monitoring a budget. I have compiled information for the development of a budget. I have explained and defended budget requests before senior organization / agency management officials. None of the above. 15 Select the type(s) of written materials that you have drafted in the execution of your work in fire protection: Answer to this question is required Fire protection guidelines and recommendations. Reports detailing the presence of fire protection engineering deficiencies for buildings. Briefing materials or other aids to make highly complex technical information understandable to upper management. Summaries of fire protection requirement similarities and differences between host countries and the United States. None of the above. 16 What is your level of experience with project management? Answer to this question is required I have either coursework or practical experience in project management. I have coursework in project management, but not practical experience. I have been a member of a long-term project team. I have had responsibility for managing one project of moderate length (i.e., 6 months or less). I have had responsibility for managing one long-term project (i.e., greater than one year). I have had responsibility for managing several multiple and long-term projects (i.e., greater than one year) concurrently. I have no education, training or experience in project management. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to mgshelp@monster.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.