Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Are you a current National Gallery of Art employee with competitive status?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position . Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above. 3 Please indicate your experience preparing and submitting vehicle production, management, mileage, and maintenance reports.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 4 Monitors vehicle dispatches to ensure daily vehicle inspection reports; trip tickets, logs, status reports. preventive maintenance records; and accident reports are prepared.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 5 I have experience utilizing the following programs (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required ServiceNow GSA FLEET Microsoft Excel 6 I have experience monitoring vehicle registrations to ensure they are up to date.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 I have experience maintaining vehicle service and inspection records to ensure compliance with GSA regulations, manufacture's service schedules or leasing company maintenance requirements.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Experience working with GSA to ensure vehicle maintenance is completed in a timely manner and all repairs are completed as requested.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 9 Monitoring GSA Fleet for vehicle recalls and addressing recalls in a timely manner.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 10 Please indicate your experience performing General Services Administration-mandated routine preventive maintenance on fleet vehicles and adhering to the manufacturer's recommended service schedules.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 11 Have you worked with clients and customers to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 12 Have you provided excellent customer service through project assistance, advice, offering options, and resolving problems in an effective manner?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 13 Have you monitored transportation work order requests to ensure the delivery of timely and quality customer service to stakeholders?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance. 14 Have you effectively communicated orally with subordinate staff and senior-level officials in order to represent the organization and to work on a variety of issues, activities and projects?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 15 I have personally communicated orally with clients in order to respond to inquiries, requests for information, and requests for assistance.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 16 Do you have experience that demonstrates your ability to communicate orally in order to give presentations, participate in staff meetings and contribute to various meetings? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Choose the statements that accurately describe your communication skills (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Effectively communicated technical information to internal and external audiences. Persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes, alternative viewpoints or take a particular course of action. Interviewed employees or managers to acquire specific programmatic and/or technical information. Effectively communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis. 18 Do you have experience researching organizational issues and history to inform decision-making? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.