Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 1 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility installing, maintaining, modifying, or repairing electronic equipment? Answer to this question is required I have not installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have completed training or education related to the installation, maintenance, modification or repair of electronic equipment, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, modification, or repair of electronic equipment. I have installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, modified, or repaired electronic equipment. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience installing electronic components or systems (e.g., cable television, audio/visual). Answer to this question is required I connected wires or cables to electronic components following the direction of a senior employee. I ran wires or cables as instructed by a senior employee. I retrieved tools or materials for a senior employee installing electronic components or systems. I completed education or training on methods to install electronic components or systems, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in my work. I do not have experience installing electronic components or systems. 3 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility testing CATV systems? Answer to this question is required I have not tested CATV systems. I have completed training or education related to testing CATV systems, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the testing of CATV Headend and Distribution Systems. I have tested CATV systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently tested CATV systems. 4 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility testing radio frequency (RF) carrier, amplitude modulated (AM) symbol/bit synchronization clock systems? Answer to this question is required I have not tested radio frequency (RF) carrier, amplitude modulated (AM) symbol/bit synchronization clock systems. I have completed training or education related to testing radio frequency (RF) carrier, amplitude modulated (AM) symbol/bit synchronization clock systems, but I have not yet applied this knowledge on the job. I have assisted others with the testing radio frequency (RF) carrier, amplitude modulated (AM) symbol/bit synchronization clock systems. I have tested radio frequency (RF) carrier, amplitude modulated (AM) symbol/bit synchronization clock systems with minimal supervision or assistance from others. I have independently tested radio frequency (RF) carrier, amplitude modulated (AM) symbol/bit synchronization clock systems. I have trained others on the proper procedures for performing this type of work. Grade: All Grades 1 Which digital / analog systems have you repaired and inspected Answer to this question is required Alarm and status transmitters. Receiving modules. Beam modulated photo-electric smoke detectors. Micro-processor-based card key entrance systems. Solid state amplifiers. Public Announcement systems. None of the above. 2 Which of the following competencies have you demonstrated in the performance of your duties and responsibilities as an Electronics Mechanic? Answer to this question is required Knowledge of electronic theory and design and able to use theoretical concepts to devise solutions for operating or repair problems on systems in which novel engineering approaches have created unforeseen problems. Ability to diagnose problems and suggest solutions for operating and repair problems on complex Analog and digital systems. Skill in interpreting electronic drawings, specifications, and schematics of complex operational systems. Knowledge of the operation, capabilities, and limitations of electronic test equipment. Ability to integrate the functions of old, outdated equipment with new state-of-the-art equipment while maintaining the integrity of the entire system and its related functions. Ability to install circuit boards, analyze programs, troubleshoot, inspect, test, and maintain electronic equipment and effect repairs. I do not possess any of the above competencies. 3 Do you have experience installing and troubleshooting Cable TV or Audio Visual Systems? Answer to this question is required Yes 3.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 4 Which&nbsp;Cable TV, clock or Audio Systems have you installed? Answer to this question is required Analog Portable Audio/Sound Digital Portable Audio/Sound GPS Timing and Synchronization RF/Digital Community Cable Television (CaTv) RF/Wireless Alert and Notification RF/Wireless Timing and Synchronization None of the above 5 For which reasons have you used electronic test equipment? Answer to this question is required Assessing the voltage levels Testing fiber optic cable for continuity Assessing amperage/resistance levels Measuring footage (e.g., to determine length/footage of cable run) Troubleshooting electronic boards/systems Testing to de-energize circuits to safely work on None of the above 6 Do you have experience trouble shooting different types of audio systems? Answer to this question is required Yes No 7 Which tasks have you performed independently to calibrate assemblies? Answer to this question is required Testing of analog circuits Testing of digital circuits Aligning or balancing analog circuits Replacing solid state devices None of the above 8 Which tools have you used to test electronic equipment or systems? (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Voltmeters Tone Generators OTDRs COFDM/QAM Signal Analyzers Optical Power Meters Digital Cable Analyzers RF Signal Level Meters Spectrum Analyzers None of the above 9 Which steps have you taken to troubleshoot electronic issues reported by others? Answer to this question is required Disconnecting the device Hooking up a signal level meter Looking for service quality and level Visually inspecting equipment for breaks Replacing a jack (Ethernet Port, F Connector, and/or FO Port) Replacing a broken cable (Coaxial, FO, RCA, AV, etc.) Recommending the next steps to take to the customer/client (e.g., requesting new TV connectivity, procuring a new TV) Using another outlet to confirm equipment the outage or need for repair None of the above 10 Which electronic installation or maintenance problems have you resolved by using a new method? Answer to this question is required Retrofitted equipment space/cabinets to meet equipment size Modified wiring to conform with power supplies available Determined signal strength of fiber optic cables Located breaks in fiber optic cables Performed diagnostic tests on amplifiers None of the above 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.