Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-13 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-13 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-12 grade level, and will be at the GS-12 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-12 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-12 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-13 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at a grade level below the GS-12. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, is responsible for the direct physical protection of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, and when deemed necessary, for other Executive Staff of the Bureau of Prisons.&nbsp; Duties are performed throughout the National Capitol Region and the United States, with occasional travel to foreign countries.&nbsp; The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, ensures safe surroundings, which involves consistent investigation and intervenes with suspicious individuals who pose a threat to those being protected.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have reviewed security data and briefed supervisors on security flaws; and/or I have coordinated the transport of a federal prisoner with special security needs for transfer or for a medical/hospital visit. I have assigned individuals to conduct visual/pat/electronic searches for contraband; and/or I have led a forced cell move; and/or I have made recommendations to improve standard correctional practices; and/or I have drafted an incident report after a major inmate disturbance or after observing unusual inmate behavior patterns. I have participated in a Correctional Services audit; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution security operations; and/or I have advised upper management of prisoner movements, using established methods and procedures. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, must make sound, well-informed and objective decisions.&nbsp; He/she must perceive the impact and implications of decisions even in uncertain situations, to accomplish the mission and security concerns of the agency.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have directed teams in the gathering of evidence after major altercation/disturbance; and/or I have identified inmates who should be moved to higher security level institutions after reviewing evidence/documents; and/or I have directed a staff emergency squad to secure a housing unit; and/or I have directed the emergency medical evacuation of inmates during a crisis. I have coordinated a mock exercise that required activation of various departments during a crisis management drill; and/or I have debriefed mid-management of the results of a serious situation; and/or I have notified appropriate management officials when an emergency situation was discovered and implemented a plan of action; and/or I have oversaw/managed a critical situation until an external entity arrived (i.e., management official, Federal Protective Service, fire department, or police department) to manage/resolve the situation. I have activated a command center, hostage negotiations, or tactical operations center (i.e., during a natural disaster or riot); and/or I have provided training for Executive Staff, department heads, duty officers, or others in the operation of the command center; and/or I have provided emergency management training during Annual Training or equivalent; and/or I have implemented new emergency management procedures received from the national level; and/or I have initiated a staff recall procedure during an institution disturbance (i.e., a homicide, rival gang conflict, riot, racial altercation, or major fire); and/or I have developed Memorandums of Understanding with local law enforcement; and/or I have coordinated mock exercises or crisis management drills with various departments. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization.&nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to interact in a manner which safeguards the most sensitive information and mitigates the risk to the Director&rsquo;s reputation.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have chaired meetings to provide updates on pending projects and new projects to execute; and/or I have provided guidance to peers on task accomplishments; and/or I have presented information to new employees; and/or I have instructed a class using established curriculum or lesson plans; and/or I have prepared and presented a briefing during an institution recall; and/or I have coordinated efforts with other departments to resolve complaints or issues encountered; and/or I have presented audit findings and recommendations for improvements during departmental meetings. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs or procedures; and/or I have made presentations to department heads. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have presented a presentation to organization’s management officials on emergency materials; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, must review and approve operational plans, site and route surveys, and situational reports prior to and during travel.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have followed and applied procedures to maintain the security of an institution; and/or I have appropriately handled problems/concerns without incident; and/or I have assisted in leading a mock scenario; and/or I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions correctly; and/or I have set priorities and goals to accomplish specific department/unit/office objectives. I have guided efforts to apprehend an escapee by ordering an emergency count, manning of an escape post, and dispatching officers; and/or I have led a review team for an emergency preparedness or vulnerability threat assessment; and/or I have led or assisted the leader in a special operations response or tactical operations team. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, must assess strengths, weaknesses, and areas for improvements for operations and movements of the Director/designee.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have updated existing emergency management procedures. I have conducted database research in coordination with other task forces and members; and/or I have analyzed inmate telephone calls and correspondence, financial records, visitor and community connections, and custody related contacts regarding inmates of greatest concern and other correctional issues; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research. I have participated as a member of a special operations response or tactical operations team; and/or I have worked as a component liaison in the command center during an active incident or exercise; and/or I have taught a class at the department head level on emergency preparedness; and/or I have participated as a member of a review team for an emergency preparedness or vulnerability threat assessment. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, is responsible for the program development and full managerial oversight regarding protection operations and threat mitigation for the Bureau of Prisons Director.&nbsp; He/she will ensure his/her staff have complete understanding and application of policy, procedures, and guidelines in the use of force to sufficiently perform their duties.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have monitored subordinates to determine if they were following instructions/proper procedures; and/or I have assisted subordinates in completing tasks within assigned deadlines; and/or I have assisted in developing/presenting a training session for the professional growth and development of subordinates. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan. None of the above. 10 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, serves as the primary liaison with all Divisions in Central Office, and other law enforcement agencies in support of the Director&rsquo;s executive protection.&nbsp; He/she has the foresight, knowledge, and ability to provide protective operations expertise in a professional written format.&nbsp; The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, writes guidance and/or policy for the Protective Operations Unit, using their ability to evaluate operational challenges, identify solutions, and implement changes related to executive protection.&nbsp; He/she communicates in writing well supported conclusions and recommendations that guide resource personnel while supporting the Director&rsquo;s protective detail operation.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have prepared routine informative reports regarding analysis of population/demographic characteristics; and/or I have written an investigation report; and/or I have prepared memorandums or other official documents for department head level signature. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by others; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in an external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives; and/or I have prepared congressional responses for Executive Staff. I have prepared draft articles for internal/external updates; and/or I have written memorandums to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have prepared a statement on an institution issue for release to the media; and/or I have prepared correspondence requesting information from another agency regarding an inmate. None of the above. Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 TIME IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS: All applicants must meet time in grade requirements by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GM employee. NOTE: For the purposes of this section, GM employees are equivalent to GS employees. 2.1 Select one of the following: I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher, or was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher. I am currently at the GS-13 grade level, and will be at the GS-13 grade level for a total of 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for at least a total of 52 weeks. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because as a GS-13 employee, I will not have 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I do not meet time-in-grade requirements because I am below the GS-13 grade level. I am a WS/WG employee and will be a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I am a WS/WG employee and have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks. 2.1 If you have not been a WS/WG employee for at least the previous 52 weeks, select one of the following: I was previously at the GS-14 or higher grade level. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-13 grade level for less than 52 weeks. I was previously at the GS-12 or lower grade level. I was not previously in the GS pay system. 2.2 If you were not previously in the GS pay plan, but were in another federal civilian pay plan, please provide your pay plan and salary information below. ( i.e., JS pay system, 44,500 per annum) Maximum length of 250 characters. Other 2.1 Please provide your salary information below. If you are a federal employee, include your pay plan, and grade or pay band. Maximum length of 250 characters. DETERMINING YOUR NEED TO COMPETE FOR THIS POSITION: Please CAREFULLY read all of the information outlined below. 3 In order to determine your need to compete for this position, select the statement which best applies to you. Answer to this question is required I am a GS/GL/GM/GP employee. Some General Schedule (GS) and LEO (GL) applicants may be considered for selection without "competing" for this position (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc). Examples include applicants eligible for reassignment, changing to a lower grade, or repromoting to a grade previously held on a permanent basis. You do not need to compete for this job if you, on a permanent basis (SEE NOTE BELOW ON TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS), are a GS-14 or higher, or are in a job with a career ladder of GS-14, or are in a trainee position which may lead to a non-competitive promotion upon successful completion of a training program. You also would not compete if you were previously a GS-14 on a permanent basis or held a position with a career ladder of GS-14 and were not demoted for disciplinary reasons. You are encouraged to check with your local HR office if you are uncertain of your response to this question. What is a career ladder? A career ladder is the normal grade progression through which employees advance to reach the full performance level (top grade of the career ladder) of a particular occupation without having to apply for and compete with other employees. A career ladder consists of grades ranging from the lowest level of the position at which an employee can be hired, to the highest level, also known as the full performance level. For example, for a position that is announced at the GS/GL-5/7/9/11 grade levels, the top grade of the career ladder is GS-11. An employee who is selected at the GS/GL-7 grade level is eligible to receive career ladder promotions up to the GS-11 grade level without further competition. NOTE: If you have "competed" for a temporary promotion (i.e., completing assessment questions, etc), AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition, you do not need to compete for this position. You must provide the promotion SF-50. Failure to do so will result in you being considered competitively. 3.1 Do you meet the condition listed above? Yes, I am currently at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, the position I currently hold is a career ladder position which goes to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I was previously at the GS-14 grade level or higher; or, I previously held a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level without my having to compete. Yes, I have competed for a temporary promotion to the GS-14, AND the vacancy announcement stated that the temporary promotion could be made permanent without further competition. YOU MUST PROVIDE PROMOTION SF-50. No, I am currently on a temporary promotion to the GS-14, not to exceed 120 days. No, my current grade level is GS-13 or lower. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a WS/WG employee. For WS applicants to be considered for this position without competing (i.e., be eligible to be reassigned, changed to a lower grade or repromoted), WS EMPLOYEES MUST meet one of the conditions described below: A) You must have been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks; AND You must have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND Your current annual salary MUST BE equal to or greater than the representative rate identified in the remarks section of the vacancy announcement. OR B) If you are a WS employee, but have not been a WS employee for the preceding 52 weeks, THEN the career ladder of the position you held on a permanent basis as a GS employee MUST BE equal to or greater than the GS-14 grade level. OR C) If you previously held, on a permanent basis, a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher. 3.1 Do you meet any of the conditions listed above? Yes, I have been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks; AND I have been a supervisor (of federal employees, not inmates) for at least one year; AND my current salary is equal to or greater than the representative rate of the position as indicated on the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Yes, I am a WS employee, but I have not been a WS employee for the last 52 weeks, and the position I held on a permanent basis as a GS employee was a career ladder position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher without my having to compete. Yes, I have been in a position which went to the GS-14 grade level or higher, on a permanent basis. No, I am a WS employee and do not meet any of the conditions listed above. IF YOU ANSWERED 'YES' ABOVE, YOUR APPLICATION WILL BE PROCESSED AS AN EXCEPTION. IF YOU ANSWERED 'NO' ABOVE, YOU ARE A COMPETITIVE APPLICANT AND MUST ENSURE YOU COMPLETE THE ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS ON THE PREVIOUS SCREEN. I am a federal employee in a different pay plan. I am applying under a special hiring authority (Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA) or 30% or More Disabled Veterans). NOTE: This vacancy is not open to VEOA eligibles or 30% or more Disabled Veterans. You will not receive consideration for this position applying under either special hiring authority. If you want to be considered for this position you MUST make another selection choice. ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 4 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, is responsible for the direct physical protection of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, and when deemed necessary, for other Executive Staff of the Bureau of Prisons. &nbsp; Duties are performed throughout the National Capitol Region and the United States, with occasional travel to foreign countries. &nbsp; The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, ensures safe surroundings, which involves consistent investigation and intervenes with suspicious individuals who pose a threat to those being protected.&nbsp; From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have facilitated an internal/external security audit and certified compliance; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have led a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy; and/or I have analyzed policies and procedures related to the transport of federal prisoners and provided recommendations to Executive Staff to improve the safety and security of the transport and to reduce government costs. I have participated in a Correctional Services audit; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution security operations; and/or I have advised upper management of prisoner movements, using established methods and procedures. I have conducted management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have reviewed security data and briefed supervisors on security flaws; and/or I have coordinated the transport of a federal prisoner with special security needs for transfer or for a medical/hospital visit. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, must make sound, well-informed and objective decisions.&nbsp; He/she must perceive the impact and implications of decisions even in uncertain situations, to accomplish the mission and security concerns of the agency.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have activated a command center, hostage negotiations, or tactical operations center (i.e., during a natural disaster or riot); and/or I have provided training for Executive Staff, department heads, duty officers, or others in the operation of the command center; and/or I have provided emergency management training during Annual Training or equivalent; and/or I have implemented new emergency management procedures received from the national level; and/or I have initiated a staff recall procedure during an institution disturbance (i.e., a homicide, rival gang conflict, riot, racial altercation, or major fire); and/or I have developed Memorandums of Understanding with local law enforcement; and/or I have coordinated mock exercises or crisis management drills with various departments I have coordinated operations within the command center in a crisis situation; and/or I have developed enhanced emergency response procedures in an institution (i.e., staged emergency equipment, developed and implemented new procedures for staff used in response to emergencies, trained staff in the use of less lethal munitions); and/or I have organized, initiated, developed and presented crisis management training to local law enforcement in the community; and/or I have developed, organized, and presented crisis management training by coordinating efforts of other departments; and/or I have planned, managed, and coordinated activities for an emergency response team; and/or I have led an after-action review involving a crisis management situation I have directed teams in the gathering of evidence after major altercation/disturbance; and/or I have identified inmates who should be moved to higher security level institutions after reviewing evidence/documents; and/or I have directed a staff emergency squad to secure a housing unit; and/or I have directed the emergency medical evacuation of inmates during a crisis. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. &nbsp; He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to interact in a manner which safeguards the most sensitive information and mitigates the risk to the Director&rsquo;s reputation.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have presented a presentation to organization’s management officials on emergency materials; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs or procedures; and/or I have made presentations to department heads. I have participated on a work group which included members of the Executive Staff/upper management from other agencies; and/or I have represented agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to the Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, must review and approve operational plans, site and route surveys, and situational reports prior to and during travel.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have guided efforts to apprehend an escapee by ordering an emergency count, manning of an escape post, and dispatching officers; and/or I have led a review team for an emergency preparedness or vulnerability threat assessment; and/or I have led or assisted the leader in a special operations response or tactical operations team. I have analyzed and evaluated a major disturbance and recommended methods to improve operations/efficiency; and/or I have updated joint intelligence and emergency preparedness policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. None of the above. 8 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, must assess strengths, weaknesses, and areas for improvements for operations and movements of the Director/designee.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have conducted database research in coordination with other task forces and members; and/or I have analyzed inmate telephone calls and correspondence, financial records, visitor and community connections, and custody related contacts regarding inmates of greatest concern and other correctional issues; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research. I have performed risk assessments of Bureau of Prisons policy, procedures and physical security aspects to support/direct development and publication of intelligence related publications (i.e., security alerts, Security Threat Group Briefing, intelligence trends); and/or I have served as a troubleshooter/liaison in dealing with management problems; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency/organization practices that impacted significant programs on a national level. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have updated existing emergency management procedures. None of the above. 9 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, is responsible for the program development and full managerial oversight regarding protection operations and threat mitigation for the Bureau of Prisons Director. &nbsp; He/she will ensure his/her staff have complete understanding and application of policy, procedures, and guidelines in the use of force to sufficiently perform their duties.&nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strengths and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have combined monthly staff meetings with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employees job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensured all deadlines were met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through a formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievances before it escalated to higher level for action; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and increased morale. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan. None of the above. 10 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, serves as the primary liaison with all Divisions in Central Office, and other law enforcement agencies in support of the Director&rsquo;s executive protection.&nbsp; He/she has the foresight, knowledge, and ability to provide protective operations expertise in a professional written format.&nbsp; The Chief, Protective Operations Unit, writes guidance and/or policy for the Protective Operations Unit, using their ability to evaluate operational challenges, identify solutions, and implement changes related to executive protection.&nbsp; He/she communicates in writing well supported conclusions and recommendations that guide resource personnel while supporting the Director&rsquo;s protective detail operation. &nbsp;From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have revised internal policy/institution supplements; and/or I have proofread/edited reports/correspondence developed by others; and/or I have prepared a statement on a sensitive issue for release to the media; and/or I have prepared a portion of a highly technical report/document; and/or I have prepared written responses to internal (agency/organization) requests received; and/or I have documented findings as a participant in an external/internal audit; and/or I have prepared strategic plans; and/or I have developed local training initiatives; and/or I have prepared congressional responses for Executive Staff. I have prepared draft articles for internal/external updates; and/or I have written memorandums to department heads/managers explaining a newly implemented policy or procedure; and/or I have prepared a statement on an institution issue for release to the media; and/or I have prepared correspondence requesting information from another agency regarding an inmate. I have developed a standard operating manual/procedural guide, which explained laws and regulations in laymen’s terms; and/or I have developed national agency/organization policy; and/or I have prepared technical and complex responses to inquiries received from high level external sources; and/or I have proofread and edited complex correspondence/reports which resulted in significant changes to policy/current procedures; and/or I have written an article which was published in a professional arena (technical journal, magazine); and/or I have prepared a position paper which justified decisions made by agency/organization; and/or I have developed national training initiatives; and/or I have developed new Contingency Plans. None of the above. Grade: All Grades This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, documentation, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Applicants who provide inaccurate information within the application process may be removed from future consideration under this vacancy. Carefully read the information listed below. Bureau of Prisons Employees: Your overall yearly performance evaluation will be considered based on current policy and/or procedures, typically most recent rating of record. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. Other Status Applicants: You must provide a copy of your latest yearly performance appraisal/evaluation. If you do not have a performance rating, your overall rating should reflect Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results. NOTE: If you lack a performance appraisal due to a work related compensable injury or deployment to the uniformed service, you should report your most recent rating of record. Failure to submit all required information may result in a lowered score. 1 If you currently hold, or ever held, a civilian position in the Federal Government, what was your last yearly performance appraisal rating? NOTE: If you receive an updated yearly performance evaluation during the life of this vacancy announcement, you MUST update your response. Answer to this question is required Outstanding 1.1 Please enter the date of your Outstanding evaluation. Excellent 1.1 Please enter the date of your Excellent evaluation. Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results 1.1 Please enter the date of your Successful, Presumptive Successful or Achieved Results evaluation. Minimally Satisfactory Unacceptable or Unsatisfactory Pass (not a BOP employee) Fail (not a BOP employee) None of the above. (not a BOP employee) Table of Award Points QSI (Quality Step Increase) or SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) - add 4 points Special Act or Time-Off Award - add 2 points Letter of Commendation (CEO level) - add 1 point Suggestion Award - add 1 point 2 Using the table of points for the types of awards you received within the last 5 years of federal employment, calculate your total award points. 0 point 1 point 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 points 6 points 7 - 15 points over 15 points 3 From the list below, please select the awards used to calculate your total award points. QSI (Quality Step Increase) SSP (Sustained Superior Performance) Special Act Award Time-Off Award Letter of Commendation (CEO level) Suggestion Award 4 Are you a current Bureau of Prisons (BOP) employee? Answer to this question is required Yes 4.1 BOP EMPLOYEES MUST enter a duty location for each position change within the past ten years of BOP employment. Title, Series, Grade and Location MUST be provided. Use the format below: 10/12/2003 to Present; Unit Manager, GS-006-12; USP Correctional Facility 5/25/2000 to 10/11/2003; Case Manager, GS-101-09; FCI Correctional Facility Maximum length of 5000 characters. No 5 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE: This is an eligibility acknowledgment required to continue the application process. Failure to provide a response will result in your application not being reviewed. Contact your servicing Human Resources Office or the Consolidated Staffing Unit with any questions. A prerequisite of the secondary law enforcement position is the completion of the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II". If you have not completed the mandatory courses in "Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I and Phase II", you are ineligible for a secondary law enforcement position and coverage. This is not applicable to non-law enforcement positions Answer to this question is required I accept the retirement coverage associated with this position. 6 SECONDARY LAW ENFORCEMENT COVERAGE ONLY: All applicants must meet the Secondary Law Enforcement coverage requirement by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.&nbsp; Select one of the following: Answer to this question is required I have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position. I will have three years of law enforcement coverage gained in a primary law enforcement position by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. I will not have three years of law enforcement coverage by the closing date of the vacancy announcement. (Selecting this answer choice will REMOVE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION for the position. If you applied to more than one grade level, BE ADVISED that you may be selected at ANY grade level for which you applied and are found qualified (i.e., if the job is announced at the 9/11 grade levels and you apply for the GS/GL-09 and the GS-11, and you are found qualified at BOTH grade levels, you may be selected at either grade level). The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 7 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 8 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 9 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 10 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 11 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False BOP EMPLOYEES are reminded to: review their resume AND include all relevant experience for the position; and, enter a duty location for each position change within the resume for at least the past five years of employment. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).