Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as it relates to this position: Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I meet the education substitution as described in the vacancy announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described in the announcement. (Submission of your Transcripts/Unofficial transcript is required at the time of application). I do NOT meet the requirements as described above. 4 Do you have experience in providing administrative support to senior management, departmental staff and/or program managers to include (but is not limited to) time keeping, scheduling meetings, property management, training, organization, record keeping, and HR responsibilities? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Which of the following describes your experience providing administrative tasks in support of an office or organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have ensured compliance with budget/financial management laws, regulations, policies, standards or procedures. I have explained or provided guidance on administrative laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or other customers. I have exercised independent judgment in interpreting and adapting available guidelines in order to complete administrative assignments. I have developed policies, guidelines, and procedures for program administration. I have interpreted and applied regulations dealing with procurement and contracts. I have approved purchase orders/documents ensuring adherence to policies and regulations. I have performed analyses of obligation and performance data to determine compliance with guidance. I have provided technical advice in administrative support areas to others. I have obtained necessary documentation, certification, or approval in support of actions. I have implemented operational, program, or project plans to meet objectives. I have identified and tracked quantities of goods purchased. I have identified and tracked hours worked by employees. I have NOT performed these job functions. 6 Which of the following administrative areas do you have experience performing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Budgeting Contracting Purchasing Human resources Travel of employees None of the above 7 From the following list, identify the kinds of automated systems and processes you have regularly used. Check all that apply Answer to this question is required Automated data systems for tracking and monitoring activities. Automated spreadsheet software. Automated database software. Data entry, editing and retrieval tasks in the processing of data. Computerized graphics for slides, posters and manuscripts. Word processing applications to prepare documents, reports, articles, correspondence, or memoranda. Uses desk top publishing software packages to prepare documents and reports. Automated budget database software Automated databases to prepare data summaries for inclusion on reports on budget execution. Automated systems to prepare budget reports. I have created database tables, queries and/or reports. I have not used the above software programs but have used other software programs. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience coordinating travel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with Federal Travel Regulations (FTR) procedures and/or regulations. I have prepared travel related documents in accordance with on-line booking engines. I have advised office personnel on travel requirements and procedures. I have explained the complexities of travel requirements to office personnel and provided guidance on appropriate travel documentation. I have prepared and/or reviewed travel vouchers for compliance with current guidelines. I have prepared individual travel orders for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel orders for foreign travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for domestic travel. I have prepared individual travel vouchers for foreign travel. I have prepared invitational travel orders. I have prepared travel related documents using an automated system, such as Travel Manager. I have reconciled travel problems. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 9 Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge of federal and SI travel regulations and policies to ensure program compliance and recommend improvements. Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge of federal travel regulations but my knowledge of SI travel policies is sufficient to ensure compliance with basic requirements. My knowledge of federal travel regulations and SI policies is sufficient to ensure program compliance. My knowledge of federal travel regulations and SI policies is sufficient to ensure program compliance and recommend changes to improve processes. My knowledge of federal travel regulations and SI policies is not sufficient to ensure compliance 10 Which of the following describes your experience in the performance of procurement activities?&nbsp; (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods and services. I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have conducted market surveys. I have evaluated the qualifications for vendors. I have developed independent government cost estimates. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts and/or purchases orders. I have developed acquisition plans. I have executed simplified acquisition techniques and basic Federal acquisition. I have performed contract administration and negotiation in the context of acquisition management using a variety of tools. I have maintained contract signatory authority of at least $10,000.00. I have overseen or supervised procurement activity within an organization establishing and maintaining controls to ensure purchasing methods met all legal and organizational requirements. I have not performed these job functions. 11 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 12 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience in managing budgets for the office? Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the preparation of budgets, spending plans, and projections by compiling and organizing financial data across multiple funding sources, including Federal and trust funds to meet the requirements of projects within prescribed budgets. I have reviewed budgets, spending plans, and projections including financial data across multiple funding sources, such as Federal and trust funds to meet the requirements of projects within prescribed budgets. I have organized and compiled data related to budgets, spending plans, and projections across multiple funding sources, including Federal and trust funds to meet the requirements of projects within prescribed budgets. I do not meet the experience requirements as described. 13 Which of the following tasks best reflects your experience with managing budgets? (Check one) Answer to this question is required I have developed multi-year project budgets including for research programs, collaborating with multiple departments to ensure all anticipated expenses are captured and projects remained within limits. I assisted in the development of multi-year, project budgets, collaborating with multiple departments, and ensuring budgets remain on track. I have monitored multiple project budgets to ensure all projects remained within limits. I have monitored a project budget and expenses to ensure project remained within limits. I have helped develop budgets based on prior expenditures for similar projects. I have no experience in this area. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.