Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 From the following list, please indicate to whom you have provided advice, guidance, or consultation based on the results of analyses of foreign policy and/or national security issues. Answer to this question is required Chief executive Senior management Middle management Peers Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Non-governmental organization or academic institution General public None of the above 2 From the following list, indicate the customers that you communicate with on a day-to-day basis in providing information or administrative support services: Answer to this question is required Senior level agency officials Non-government officials Government Officials Vendors Customers internal to the organization Customers external to the organization Foreign Officials Attendees at meetings, seminars, conferences Members of Congress Congressional Staff None of the above 3 At what level have you organized planned and coordinated activities? Answer to this question is required Across organizations Organization-wide Major division Work unit None of the above 4 Please select from the list below situations in which you have developed and recommended policy: Answer to this question is required To manage programs, including budget and human resources. To implement programs. To make recommendations to improve programs / operations. To decide on continuation or termination of programs. To make recommendations to senior agency officials. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials). None of the above. 5 Which of the following choices best describe your highest level of education or experience in national or international security programs? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience pertaining to national and/or international security programs. I have education or training pertaining to national and/or international security programs, but have NOT yet applied it on the job. I have applied my knowledge of national and/or international security programs on the job under close supervision. I have applied my knowledge of national and/or international security programs as a regular part of the job without supervision. I am highly knowledgeable about national and/or international security programs and have trained others in this topic area. 6 Which of the following statements BEST describes your highest level of work experience supporting a U.S. mission to an international organization by serving as the point-of-contact or "issues officer" on behalf of the bureau or agency for that organization? Answer to this question is required I have no experience, education, or training in supporting a U.S. mission to an international organization by serving as the point-of-contact or "issues officer" on behalf of my bureau or agency for that organization. I have completed formal education or training that would facilitate me in performing this task, but I have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment. I have routinely and independently supported a U.S. mission to an international organization by serving as the point-of-contact or "issues officer" on behalf of my bureau or agency for that organization. I have routinely and independently supported a U.S. mission to an international organization by serving as the "senior issues officer" on behalf of my bureau or agency for that organization. I am highly skilled at serving as an "issues officer," having served as the point of contact or issues officer on behalf of my bureau or agency for more than one organization and having supervised others serving in this capacity. 7 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private organizations Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials None of the above 8 Which of the following choices BEST reflects your highest level establishing contacts, working with, influencing, coordinating and directing interagency U.S. foreign affairs activities? Answer to this question is required I have education and/or training performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job. My work on this task was closely monitored by a supervisor or senior coworker. I have performed this task independently as a regular part of the job and normally without assistance from a supervisor or senior coworker. I am considered an expert and have instructed or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my experience in this area. I have no experience, education, or training performing this task. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.