Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Which tasks have you performed to direct the work of employees? Answer to this question is required Set employees` work schedules Prioritized work orders or projects Assigned work orders or projects to employees Provided instruction regarding work to be performed Identified ways to improve employee job performance Monitored for unsafe practices None of the above 2 I have led and/or supervised skilled workers in a mechanical trade occupation. Answer to this question is required True 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. False 3 Select the duties and responsibilities that you performed in a supervisory or leader position. (Choose all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Established expectations and clear direction to meet goals and objectives of on-going work for a group of employees. Motivated and engaged employees through effective communication. Provides day-to-day direction to team members and set daily objectives for work unit based on established priorities and time frames. Determined activities to be performed and assigned tasks to accomplish intended outcome and timeline. Provided oversight for the project and related activities including quality assurance and safety. Observed and assessed employee’s work; provided feedback; planned for and supported employees in career development opportunities. Recommended and requested materials, equipment, and related resources required to meet project demands. Established a culture of safety for employees and ensured that work processes were free from safety and health hazards; that employees are properly trained; and that programs were in place to ensure safety. None of the above. 4 Which statements describe your experience installing, maintaining, or repairing refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have replaced bearings (e.g., motor, fan). I have replaced a belt. I have replaced a motor. I have repaired a leaking a coil. I have run steam or water cooling lines. I have replaced valves. I have changed out a thermostat. None of the above. 5 Which response best describes your highest level of experience related to commercial air handler units? Answer to this question is required I do not have knowledge or experience related to commercial air handler units. I understand commercial air handler units based on my training or education, but I have not applied this knowledge on the job. I have installed and maintained commercial air handler units. I have troubleshot and diagnosed issues related to commercial air handler units. 6 What is your experience related to direct digital control (DDC) systems? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience related to DDC systems. I have experience interpreting readings and remotely using a DDC system. I have experience changing temperatures using a DDC system. I have experience driving control valves and damper motors. I have experience programming a DDC system. 7 Have you independently interpreted refrigeration and air conditioning drawings or schematics to explain to or instruct others how to install, maintain, or repair equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Which response best describes your highest level of responsibility related to installing, maintaining, or repairing refrigeration/air conditioning equipment? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others with the installation, maintenance, or repair of refrigeration/air conditioning equipment. I have installed, maintained, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment under close supervision or with assistance from others. I have independently installed, maintained, or repaired refrigeration/air conditioning equipment. None of the above. 9 Have you done maintenance work in a historic building? Answer to this question is required Yes 9.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 10 Have you done construction work in an occupied building? Answer to this question is required Yes No 11 Have you maintained mechanical systems in buildings larger than 500,000 square feet? Answer to this question is required Yes No 12 For which refrigeration/air conditioning systems have you independently installed, maintained, or repaired? Answer to this question is required Kitchen steamers Walk-in refrigerators or freezers Reach-ins Under counter boxes Bain-maries or tilts Cold pans Refrigerated cold pans Steam tables Blast chillers Dishwashers Steam soup kettles None of the above 13 Have you taken basic readings on commercial kitchen equipment (e.g., refrigerator temperature readings)? Answer to this question is required Yes 13.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 14 What is your experience using refrigerants/Freon? Answer to this question is required I have checked refrigerant/Freon levels. I have added more refrigerant/Freon to a system. I have evacuated refrigerant/Freon from a system. I have charged a system with refrigerant/Freon. None of the above. 15 Which statement best describes your highest level of experience troubleshooting refrigeration/air conditioning problems at work? Answer to this question is required I have sought out guidance from a senior employee or supervisor to resolve problems. I have followed documented procedures (e.g., handbook, SOPs) to resolve problems. I have interpreted documented procedures or relied on my previous experiences to resolve problems. I have created new solutions for unique equipment/system issues. None of the above. 16 Which licenses do you currently hold? Answer to this question is required Journeyman- plumbing Journeyman- pipefitting Journeyman- HVAC-R Stationary Engineer license Master – plumbing Master – HVAC-R None of the above 17 Select the of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) you have used on the job. Answer to this question is required Eye protection (e.g., glasses, goggles, face shields) Hearing protection Hard hats Foot protection (e.g., safety shoes) Fall protection (e.g., harness and lanyard) Respiratory protection (e.g., respirator, self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA), fit testing) Hand protection None of the above 18 Please describe your highest level of experience working with safety procedures: Answer to this question is required I have trained others on safety policies and procedures. I have a firm grasp of safety policies and procedures. I have ensured others are trained on policies and procedures. None of the above 19 Select the statement(s) that describe your experience applying safety practices at work. Answer to this question is required I personally adhered to existing safety practices on the job. I ensured that other workers adhered to existing safety practices. I have worn personal protective equipment (PPE) in work settings as required. I have reminded co-workers to follow safety procedures and precautions. I have operated equipment in a manner that ensured the safety of myself and others when performing work tasks. I have made recommendations or assisted in the development of safety guidelines and procedures. None of the above. 20 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 20.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.