Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following describe your experience with the design and maintenance of data in the CMMS and analysis of data associated with asset management programs and activities? Answer to this question is required I have designed and maintained CMMS data associated with asset management programs and activities as a major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and /or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have designed and maintained CMMS data associated with asset management programs and activities as a major part of my work, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have designed and maintained CMMS data associated with asset management programs and activities under close supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have received some training in the design and maintenance of CMMS data associated with asset management programs and activities I have not had experience, education or training in the design and maintenance of CMMS data associated with asset management programs and activities 3 Have you collaborated with others on system and process improvement to develop standards, procedures and processes for data governance? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Which of the following describe your experience identifying and evaluating key performance indicators and analyzing maintenance data to provide recommendations on needed improvements and corrections? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in identifying and analyzing key performance indicators to provide recommendation on needed improvements and correction. I have done this as a major part of my work without supervision. I have experience identifying and analyzing key performance indicators to provide recommendation on needed improvements and correction. I have done this as a major part of my work with some supervision. I have assisted others in identifying and analyzing key performance indicators to provide recommendation on needed improvements and correction. This is not a major part of my work. I have participated on a team that identified and analyzed key performance indicators to provide recommendation on needed improvements and correction. This is not a major part of my work. I do not have experience in this area. 5 Do you have experience leading a team of Management and Program analysts in analyzing complex data sets from CMMS? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Which of the following best describe your experience in both leading and participating in work teams/groups? Answer to this question is required I have led large work team or group in managing projects or initiatives characterized by more than one controversial issue, high visibility, and a broad scope (i.e., agency-wide) of application. I have led a work team dealing with significant issues and visibility and some controversy. I have participated on a work team or group on high profile or controversial projects. I have participated on a work team or group on a project of similar interest. None of the above 7 Which of the following describe your experience leading a team of Management and Program Analysts in extracting maintenance data from large datasets, analyzing data and making recommendation to the supervisor on ways to improve maintenance processes and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have led a team of Management and Program Analysts in extracting maintenance data from large datasets, analyzing data and making recommendation to the supervisor on ways to improve maintenance processes and procedures as a major part of my work. I am considered an expert in extracting maintenance data from large datasets, analyzing data and making recommendation to the supervisor on ways to improve maintenance processes and procedures as a major part of my work. I have participated on teams which extracted maintenance data from large datasets, analyzing data and making recommendation to the supervisor on ways to improve maintenance processes and procedures. This is not a major part of my work. I have received some training in this area of work. I have not received any training or education in this area of work. 8 Which of the following best describes your experience providing guidance, advice and assistance on the effective utilization of products to meet management objectives and business goals? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in providing guidance, advice and assistance on the effective utilization of products to meet management objectives and business goals? This is a major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task. I have experience providing guidance, advice and assistance on the effective utilization of products to meet management objectives and business goals. This is a major part of my work. I performed this task independently, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have experience providing guidance, advice and assistance on the effective utilization of products to meet management objectives and business goals. I performed this task independently, and usually under the supervision of a supervisor or senior employee. I have received some training and education in this area of work. I have not received any training or education in this area of work. 9 Which of the following statements best describe your knowledge, training, and experience utilizing specialized software to extract and analyze maintenance planning data, identifying trends/patterns, and developing/utilizing metrics to evaluate program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have led teams and I am considered an expert in utilizing specialized software to extract and analyze maintenance planning data, identifying trends/patterns, and developing/utilizing metrics to evaluate program effectiveness. This is a major part of my work. I am considered an expert in developing and capturing maintenance planning information and records, necessary to make facility repair decisions and I have developed metrics for evaluating the effectiveness of the program. I have participated on teams which developed and captured maintenance planning information and records, necessary to make facility repair decisions and I have developed metrics for evaluating the effectiveness of the program. I have received some training in this area of work. I have not had any experience or training in this area of work. 10 Which of the following best describes your experience using software packages such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience or training in using software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects. I have completed training in using software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used software package such as Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Access or Excel to create tables, charts and/or graphic presentations in order to manage (i.e., input and track data) special projects, as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 11 Which of the following describe your experience in utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs? Answer to this question is required I am considered an expert in utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs. I have made recommendations to management as a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in performance of this task; I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have experience utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs. I performed this task independently as a major part of my work. I have experience utilizing information obtained from maintenance data analysis to develop solutions to maintenance problem, optimize processes and improve efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance programs. I completed this task under the supervision of a supervisor or senior staff. I have received some training in this area of work. I have not had any experience or training in this area of work. 12 Which of the following statements best describe your experience preparing and presenting information, training, and conducted briefings to a wide range of individuals including senior management? Answer to this question is required I have prepared presentations and information and conducted briefing to a wide range of individuals including senior management. Presentations involved training others in the use of CMMS modules associated with asset management programs. This is a major part of my work. I have prepared preparing and presenting information, and conduct briefing to a wide range of individuals including senior management. Presentations and briefing involved training others in the use of CMMS modules associated with asset management programs. I have assisted others in preparing and presenting information and conducted briefing to a wide range of individuals including senior management. Presentations and briefing involved training others in the use of CMMS modules associated with asset management programs I have prepared information for others to present to management and/or coworkers. I have never prepared or presented information to others at work. 13 Which best describes your level of experience with the use of a Computerized Maintenance Management System (CMMS)? Answer to this question is required I have used CMMS daily and as a major part of my work. I have performed this task routinely and independently, have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have used CMMS as a regular part of my job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have used CMMS under the supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have some training in using CMMS. I have not had any experience or training in using CMMS. 14 Which of the following best describes your experience in development of in system CMMS work instructions to improve maintenance practices? Answer to this question is required I have evaluated information and data from completed work tasks and adjusted CMMS historical system records, and the work instruction library to improve maintenance outcomes as central part of my work and have trained others to do so. I have evaluated information and data from completed work tasks and adjusted CMMS historical system records, and the work instruction library to improve maintenance outcomes under the job under close supervision. I have not had experience evaluating information and data from completed work tasks or adjusted CMMS historical system records, and the work instruction in a library I have evaluated data, prepared reports and made recommendations to management as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have had education or training evaluated data, prepared reports, and made recommendations to management but I have not yet performed this task on the job. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.