Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 2 Which of the following best describes your ability to analyze organizational and operational problems and develop solutions using analytical methods to improve programs and processes? Answer to this question is required I have identified and analyzed highly complex or unique organizational issues and operational problems, analyzed alternatives and facts in arriving at sound, logical solutions; and made timely recommendations for resolution, modification, and improvement. I have identified and analyzed regulations, organizational and operational issues, problems, policies, and procedures. I have also served a primary role in resolving issues and problems significantly affecting program administration. I have analyzed issues and problems related to established program goals and objectives. I have not done any of the above tasks. 3 Which of the following statements describes your ability to advise management? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted complex studies relating to management analysis, organizational dynamics, and administrative program management. I have conducted studies of organizational elements and worked to identify problems and approve resource use, administrative support, and managerial effectiveness. I have determined resource requirements (for example, staffing, funding, equipment) based on program or project objectives. I have participated in management studies/surveys for purposes of streamlining processes and improving program operation. I have evaluated the effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, reports, policies, and directives. I have translated analytical findings into practical recommendations. I have used sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives and to make recommendations. I have provided advice and possible solutions for dealing with administrative problems in the most effective manner to maintain employee moral, achieve the best utilization of facilities and equipment, and reduce costs. I have advised management on organizational structures and work methods and procedures. I have applied analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency, effectiveness and improvement of program operations. I have served as the organization’s objective arms to help identify and resolve administrative and management problems. I have provided advice on potential congressional reactions to proposed budgets, and determined positive courses of action in response to congressional action. I have not done any of the above tasks. 4 Which of the following statements best describes your experience reviewing construction design, blueprints, and specifications for facilities? Answer to this question is required I have reviewed blueprints for new construction and/or renovation projects for a museum or collection storage facility and for an office building or general storage facility. I have reviewed blueprints for new construction and/or renovation projects for a museum or collection storage facility. I have reviewed blueprints for new construction and/or renovations for an office building or general storage facility. I have had training on reading construction blueprints. I have no experience or training on reading blueprints. 5 What is your experience with planning, design, construction, and close out of renovations in non-public spaces of a building? Answer to this question is required I have extensive experience with design and construction for non-public spaces including at least three of the following: roofs; lower facility levels; storage spaces; offices; conference rooms; mechanical support for outdoor features such as fountains and terraces; lab space. I have moderate experience with design and construction for non-public spaces including at least three of the following: roofs; lower facility levels; storage spaces; offices; conference rooms; mechanical support for outdoor features such as fountains and terraces; lab space. I have experience with space planning and space allocation for non-public uses. I have experience with providing regular status reports on complex projects with a variety of stakeholders as a project progresses. None of the above. 6 Which of the following best describes your experience with advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site? Answer to this question is required I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have not had experience, education or training in concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance. I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site as a central or major part of my work and/or I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or I am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have had education or training in concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have knowledge of advanced concepts, principles, practices and techniques of construction, renovation, and maintenance for large-scale facilities on a historic site as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. 7 Which of the following statements describe your experience with completing space and utilization functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience taking the lead role in developing plans for building design projects. I have experience developing plans for refurbishment and reorganization of a building and infrastructure construction projects. I have experience in space planning within a non-museum organization. None of the above. 8 What is your experience with space planning, policies and allocation? Answer to this question is required I have developed space use policies and procedures for a mixed-use building. I have allocated non-public space according to established policies and procedures, including at least two of the following types of space: parking; office space (interior); office space (exterior); storage space; meeting space; lab space. I possess knowledge of and experience with accessibility requirements and standards for building facilities. I have no experience with space planning, policies and allocation. 9 What is your level of experience with facility maintenance and cleanliness in a building that has a high visitation rate by the public? Answer to this question is required I have experience in facility maintenance and cleanliness for a large museum or cultural institution building that experiences crowded and busy public visitation. I have experience in facility maintenance and cleanliness for a building that experiences public visitation. I have experience in facility maintenance and cleanliness for a building housing staff from a variety of professions. I have no experience with facility maintenance and cleanliness in a public building. 10 What is your experience with security procedures in a heavily visited public building? Answer to this question is required I have experience in building staff/visitor screening policy and operations. I have experience in evacuation procedures and drills for a heavily visited public building. I have experience with emergency management policies and drills for at least two of the following: earthquakes; fire drills; shelter in place drills; active shooter drills; continuity of operations plans. I have documented experience in procedures and operations concerning building maximum occupancy and public safety egress. I have no experience with security procedures in a heavily visited public building. 11 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to serve as a contact point for building and security managers? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have reviewed and monitored work order requests for building services. I have approved work order requests for building services. I have served as the main organizational contact with building services, meeting regularly to resolve problems and represent management. I have reviewed and monitored requests for security services. I have approved requests for security services. I have served as the main organizational contact with security services, meeting regularly to resolve problems and represent management. I have worked with security to develop procedures and categories for access rights to secure spaces. None of the above 12 Which of the following statement(s) describe your experience in disaster management and response? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have no experience in disaster management or response. I had had training classes in disaster response such as incident command center, collections recovery, and/or hazardous response. I have been an incident commander. I am a member of an incident response team. I have developed the disaster management plan for a facility. I have written standard operating procedures to respond to incidents such as natural disasters or chemical spills, workplace violence, etc. I have worked with facilities management on assessing damages and planning repairs caused from disasters. I have created documentation and reports for disaster response. I have developed or coordinated training workshops and programs for disaster management. I have worked to set up emergency command centers. 13 What is the level of your knowledge and experience with building and occupational safety policies and procedures? Answer to this question is required I have a detailed knowledge of federal and local codes for safety standards and policies for public buildings In accordance with established standards, I have written safety policies and procedures for a building, its occupants and visitors I have experience with external reviews of a building safety’s program and conditions as well as experience monitoring improvements and compliance with safety standards. I have no knowledge and experience with building and occupant safety policies and procedures. 14 What is your level of experience with safety operations? Answer to this question is required I have experience in reviewing building conditions, identifying safety issues, and developing and overseeing corrections. I have experience with emergency/disaster management policies and drills for at least two of the following: earthquakes; fire drills; shelter in place drills; active shooter drills; COOP. I have extensive knowledge and experience with developing and overseeing corrective actions in response to specific safety and/or disaster issues. I have no experience with safety operations. 15 Please select any duties you have held relating to personnel supervision. Answer to this question is required Recruiting new employees Interviewing and/or selecting new employees Training employees Supervising and/or managing employees Evaluating the performance of employees Making promotion decisions about employees I have not had any personnel supervision experience 16 Which of the following statements describe your experience leading or supervising others? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided supervision to subordinate employees or contractors, including planning, assigning, and reviewing work. I have evaluated the performance of subordinate employees. I have ensured staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have resolved complaints from staff and successfully handled employee conduct issues. I have served as a team leader in motivating, planning, and monitoring work performed by others who do not report to me. I have recruited for, hired, and onboarded new staff or contractors. I have not done any of the above tasks. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.