Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 To what extent does your experience demonstrate your ability to do the work of the Sheet Metal Mechanic at the journey level without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required I perform the full range of tasks at the journey level. I develop sheet metal patterns, selects most appropriate materials and methods to fabricate and assemble components, lay out, cut form, join, assemble, install components, and checks for leaks. I plan my work, sequences, select the proper tools and equipment, and carry out assignments through to completion. My work is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I perform tasks at the journey level. I follow specified written or oral instructions. I am able to use common tools of the Sheet Metal trade and apply standard fabrication, installation, or repair techniques of duct systems of sheet metal components. My work is monitored and reviewed before closing out work orders. I have assisted Sheet Metal Mechanics and Workers, and served as a laborer or helper in performing assigned tasks by the supervisor or higher level employee I do not have experience as a Sheet Metal Mechanic 2 Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience interpreting workplace safety procedures. Answer to this question is required I have followed oral safety instructions provided by a senior employee. I have read and applied safety instructions to perform maintenance, cleaning, or repair tasks. I have interpreted safety instructions to fabricate objects from sheet metal. None of the above 3 Select the types of roof systems you have experience in performing roofing tasks. Answer to this question is required Cooper Flat Seam Standing Seam Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM) Asphalt Membrane None of the Above 4 Which response best describes your highest level of experience fabricating metal objects (e.g., ductwork, roofing patches, hardware)? Answer to this question is required I have assisted others with construction, roofing, or maintenance tasks by retrieving and placing materials or tools as instructed. I have assisted others with the fabrication of metal objects by measuring, marking, and joining materials as instructed. I have independently determined the lay out, joining method, and materials needed to fabricate metal objects. I have independently determined the lay out, joining methods, and materials needed to fabricate complex metal objects (e.g., multiple angles, scrollwork). None of the above 5 Do you have experience performing the work of a sheet metal mechanic without more than normal supervision, which includes working independently, showing job responsibility and exercising initiative? Answer to this question is required Yes 5.1 Please describe your experience performing this task. (in 1,000 characters or less) Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 6 From the responses below, select all that applies concerning the fabrication and/or installation of kitchen equipment: Answer to this question is required I have journey level experience in fabricating and installing stainless steel hoods, serving tray rails, salad bar top, and counter tops. I have experience in installing stainless steel hood, serving tray rails, salad bar tops, and counter tops. I have helped to install stainless steel hoods, serving tray rails, salad bar tops, and counter tops. None of the above 7 Do you have experience in fabricating, installing, and making repairs to copper roofs? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 8 From the responses below, please select the layout techniques that you have performed: Answer to this question is required Measuring Cutting Bending Designing Radial line development Parallel line development None of the above 9 From the responses below, select the types of power tools you have experience in using as a sheet metal mechanic. Answer to this question is required Hydraulic and jump shears Sheet metal hand and hydraulic (power) brakes Slip roll machines Lockformer Pittsburgh machines None of the above 10 From the responses below select the types of hand tools you have experienced in using in sheet metal mechanic work: Answer to this question is required Measuring Tapes Rulers Hack saws Hammer Hammer drills Snips (shears) None of the above 11 Which roofing materials have you retrieved and placed for a senior worker? Answer to this question is required Roofing nails Roofing felt Red resin None of the above 12 To what extent does your experience demonstrate your ability to do the work of the Sheet Metal Mechanic (Roofing) at the journey level without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required I perform the full range of tasks at the journey level. I select most appropriate materials and methods to assemble components, lay out and install. I plan my work, sequences, select the proper tools and equipment, and carry out assignments through to completion. My work is reviewed in terms of overall results achieved. I perform tasks at the journey level. I follow specified written or oral instructions. I am able to use common tools of the roofing trade and apply standard fabrication, installation, or repair techniques of roofing components. My work is monitored and reviewed before closing out work orders. I have assisted Roofers and Roofer Workers, and served as a laborer or helper in performing assigned tasks by the supervisor or higher level employee. I do not have experience as a Roofer. 13 From the responses below, select the types of tools you have experience doing roofing work. Answer to this question is required Tongs Hammers Torches Soldering Iron Snips Hand Rollers Heat Welding Gun None of the above 14 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 14.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.