Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of physical security standards, policies, and locksmithing practices.** Applied knowledge of physical security standards, policies, and locksmithing practices to serve as a major technical source for an organization or agency. In doing so, performed the following: 1) installed, repaired, and maintained mechanical high-security locking systems and safes, 2) managed master key systems and oversaw key control, including issuance, tracking, auditing, and accountability, 3) cut replacement keys, 4) installed new and modern locks, 5) replaced or serviced worn or outdated security locks and systems, 6) monitored physical security systems to identify vulnerabilities and managed building re-keying programs and, 7) planned and managed maintenance and replacement programs for locks and security devices. Answer to this question is required Applied expert knowledge of physical security standards, policies, and locksmithing practices to serve as a primary technical authority for an organization or agency, performed ALL of the duties listed below. Applied advanced knowledge of physical security standards, policies, and locksmithing practices to serve as a senior technical authority for an organization or agency, performed FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the duties listed below Applied knowledge of physical security standards, policies, and locksmithing practices, by performing THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above duties. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Knowledge of multi-layered security systems.** Applied knowledge of multi-layered security systems to plan and recommend the installation of such systems which may have involved the following: employee access controls, physical protection devices, monitoring equipment, remote alarm equipment, etc. Answer to this question is required Recommended, implemented, and coordinated the installation of multi-layered security systems such as those listed above. Installed and maintained multi-layered security systems such as those listed above. Worked in an environment allowing one to gain experience with multi-layered security systems. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to exercise judgment and discretion.** Addressed requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers where the agency or organization&rsquo;s mission required judgment, diplomacy, and discretion. Maintained effective interactions with others; used tact and sensitivity when handling confidential information; and solved problems and resolved issues or complaints by considering the likely consequences or implications of actions and adhering to agency or organizational standards even in ambiguous or controversial situations. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility in a fast-paced, highly complex, high-profile agency or organization whose clientele included decision-makers at the highest levels of the private or public sector (e.g., Members of Congress, agency heads, CEOs), was regularly required to use judgment and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for fully understanding, articulating, and upholding agency/organization standards and policies under stressful working conditions and responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective, diplomatic interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. In a moderately-paced, complex agency or organization whose clientele included staff representing national decision-makers in the public or private sector (e.g., executive directors of public policy research institutes, staff directors of congressional committees, presidents of professional or trade associations), was regularly required to use and tact, diplomacy, and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for understanding and upholding agency/organization standards and policies and responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. In a complex agency or organization, was regularly required to use diplomacy and discretion while negotiating and resolving requests from callers, visitors, staff, and managers. Was responsible for understanding and applying agency/organization standards and policies while responding quickly and professionally to requests. Maintained effective interactions with others even while resolving difficult or sensitive requests or complaints. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to plan, organize, and execute work. Planned and organized time to work productively and efficiently, maximizing the quantity and quality of work. This included setting priorities, determining long-term versus short-term priorities, and executing assigned tasks within scheduled constraints. Answer to this question is required Developed and implemented strategies for long-range projects or programs with agency-wide impact. Monitored and evaluated progress ensuring programs and policies were implemented and adjusted resources and processes as necessary. Implemented plans for security programs impacting agency operations or policies. Applied multiple different and unrelated processes and methods to a broad range of security activities. Coordinated work activities and maintained resources on a division or unit level. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to interact collaboratively with others and provide liaison support to coordinate security programs. Developed and maintained relationships among a variety of in-house organizations, other government agencies, contractors, and/or private companies and provided liaison support to management, staff, and end-users on security programs and situations. Answer to this question is required Collaborated with counterparts from other agencies or organizations and provided liaison support to management and staff to coordinate critical functions of a multi-faceted security program. Collaborated with counterparts from other agencies or organizations and provided liaison support to management and staff to coordinate functions for segments of a security program. Provided liaison support to management and staff on an established security program. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).