Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of product life cycle management.** Responsible for the acquisition, development, and life cycle management of hardware and software products used for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. Performs the following functions: 1) plans, obtains, and manages the full product life cycle, 2) responsible for the management of data and processes used in design, production, deployment and support of program delivery products, 3) create project plans and schedules, 4) estimates resource requirements, 5) defines milestones and deliverables, 6) monitors project activities and evaluates project progress, and 7) establish goals and objectives for long- and short-range development plans, 8) assumes a product ownership role and directs development, 9) prepares and&nbsp;makes presentations or briefings on all aspects of product life cycle management projects, 10) collaborates and coordinates across business units inside the organization and with external stakeholders. Answer to this question is required As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed ALL of the above functions for the management of hardware and software products used for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed FIVE (5) of the above functions for the management of of hardware and software products used for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed FOUR (4) of the above functions for the management of hardware and software products used for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to create product development strategy plans for the development of products.** Manages the product team and coordinates work efforts of SMEs and technical specialists for the development of hardware/software products for delivery. This includes: 1) leads meetings including requirements analysis, specification development, preliminary/critical design reviews and system integration tests, 2) transforms end-user/business requirements into product requirements/specifications, 3) create/review formal product development documentation including budgets, SOWs, charters, project plans, and test procedures, 4) advises on business capabilities required and how to integrate product reqs into a viable solution, 5) develops acquisition strategy/product baselines, 6) oversees cost estimating, planning, programming, budgeting, system integration, and interoperability for product development, and 7) transmits info to various levels of personnel. Answer to this question is required As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed ALL of the above functions for the development of hardware and software products for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed FIVE (5) of the above functions for the development of hardware and software products for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed FOUR (4) of the above functions for the development of hardware and software products for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to create plans for the deployment of products for delivery.** Manages the product team and coordinates work efforts of SMEs and technical specialists for the deployment, operations and maintenance of hardware/software products for delivery. This includes:1) creation and review of formal product deployment documentation, including deployment/communications/training/implementation plans, and project schedules 2) plans, directs and coordinates pilot projects/field tests of new products for release, 3) plans/directs data collection for pilot/field test results and prepares reports to document findings/outcomes, 4) evaluates product effectiveness using quantitative/qualitative analytic techniques, 5) identifies deficiencies and recommends enhancements, 6) renders decisions on problems identified, 7) develops product metrics to evaluate performance, and 8) provides guidance in the resolution of deployment issues and the selection of alternatives. Answer to this question is required As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed ALL of the above functions for the deployment, operations and maintenance of hardware and software products for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed SIX (6) of the above functions for the deployment, operations and maintenance of hardware and software products for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. As a Product Manager or equivalent, performed FIVE (5) of the above functions for the deployment, operations and maintenance of hardware and software products for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to provide management and contractor oversight for product development projects.** Responsible for managing the contract/acquisition process to completion and provided guidance/direction to contractors to ensure performance met established procedures, project specifications, and program requirements including the following: 1) developing statements of work, acquisition packages, market research reports, 2) performing technical evaluations of proposals, 3) developing contract award recommendation memos, 4) serving as a contracting officers representative (COR), 5) monitoring the status of contract performance, costs of work orders and reviewing price quotes and invoices, 6) providing technical oversight, 7) planning and coordinating the work of contractors and use of materials on projects, 8) establishing work priorities, 9) reviewing the quantity and quality of work performed by contractors, and 10) conducting regular status meetings to ensure project timelines are maintained. Answer to this question is required Initiated contract award and assured conformance to contract specifications, resolved problems, managed implementation of necessary changes, and provided other assistance and direction to all participants on product development related projects including ALL of the duties listed above. Initiated contract award and assured conformance to contract specifications, resolved problems, managed implementation of necessary changes, and provided other assistance and direction to all participants on product development related projects including EIGHT (8) or NINE (9) of the duties listed above. Initiated contract award and assured conformance to contract specifications, resolved problems, or identified and referred problems to appropriate parties, and assisted in coordinating routine product development related projects including SIX (6) or SEVEN (7) of the duties listed above. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to lead strategic planning, program analysis, and problem solving. Led strategic planning initiatives and development efforts for a major program and/or service to end users. This includes: 1) led efforts to develop strategies for achievement of goals, process improvement, and knowledge management initiatives, 2) supported preparations for/facilitated planning sessions to provide recommendations on challenges/opportunities, 3) conducted research/analysis of current/new issues impacting goals and business performance, 4) identified/resolved problems that impede program development and achievement of objectives, 5) used problem solving techniques to facilitate planning, decision-making and problem solving sessions with stakeholders, 6) developed methods for collection/analysis of requirements and interactions across functional areas that support program delivery, and 7) planned, developed and implemented initiatives to improve the operational capability of the business unit. Answer to this question is required Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users including ALL of the duties listed above. Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users including FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the duties listed above. Led strategic planning initiatives and organizational development efforts for a business unit responsible for delivery of a major program and/or service to end users including THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the duties listed above. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 Knowledge of braille, talking books and related products and services. Applied knowledge of the highly specialized nature of braille, talking books and related products and services to acquire and fully utilize currently available braille and audio technology. This also includes knowledge of the complete product management life cycle to provide timely, responsive, and effective services and products to audiences, users and external partners of the braille and talking book programs specifically with regards to research, acquisition, development, deployment, operation and maintenance of products. Answer to this question is required Has extensive knowledge of braille, talking books and related products and services. Served as a technical authority and has functioned as Product Manager AND Product Owner for the development, deployment, operation and maintenance of new products and services for delivery of a braille and talking book program with national scope. Has extensive knowledge of braille, talking books and related products and services. Has functioned as Product Manager AND/OR Product Owner for the development, deployment, operation and maintenance of new products and services for delivery of a braille and talking book program with regional scope. Has extensive knowledge of braille, talking books and related products and services. Has functioned as Product Manager OR Product Owner for the development, deployment, operation and maintenance of new products and services for delivery of a braille and talking book program with local scope. None of the Above 14 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 15 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Worked collaboratively and developed professional relationships with a wide variety of individuals internal and external to the agency/organization (staff at all levels, management officials, vendors, stakeholders, contractors, and the general public) to accomplish program goals and resolve problems and issues. This included actively seeking input and contributing one's own expertise, experiences, and capabilities. Answer to this question is required Independently and actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL to an agency/organization to accomplish HIGHLY COMPLEX, mission-critical activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines INTERNAL AND/OR EXTERNAL to an agency/organization to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. Actively collaborated with persons from multiple disciplines WITHIN ONE’S OWN DIVISION or ORGANIZATION to accomplish MODERATELY COMPLEX activities. None of the Above 16 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 17 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 18 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).