Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 15 1 GS-15: Choose the one answer that BEST describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience in grants management? Answer to this question is required I can articulate the important point of the material and draw conclusions. I can review various source materials and identify inconsistencies. I can identify the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. I can use quantitative methods. I can use qualitative methods. I can identify relationships between points, issues, or events. I can infer possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above 4 Which of the following statements reflects your experience in conducting research and performing analytical tasks for a grants management program? Answer to this question is required Analyzed and recommended alternative approaches to existing practices, procedures, reports and/or policies. Researched and analyzed data and information to develop practices, procedures, reports, and/or policies. Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedural reports, and/or policies. Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to problematic issues. Conducted in-depth research to solve organizational problems. Conducted quality assurance reviews and presented findings to management officials. None of the above 5 Select the activities you have performed related to the administration of programs or the management of projects: Answer to this question is required Implemented findings and conclusions resulting from a regulatory review and monitored progress. Served as focal point or team lead on unique or sensitive regulatory / procedural / policy matters. Reviewed team work products and made summary recommendations for improving production quality. Monitored team efforts or workflow to ensure program success, responding with shifts in workload or adjustments to operational procedures. Generated management reports and tracking of performance measures. Trained and developed new or junior employees. None of the above. 6 In monitoring the adherence of a foreign grant application, with which of the following regulations and/or policies have you used? Answer to this question is required Statutes Federal Regulations (including OMB Circulars) Comptroller General Decisions Grants Policies Agency Financial Management Policies None of the above 7 I have performed the following activities to plan and organize work to meet goals and objectives: Answer to this question is required Prioritized multiple assignments or tasks. Estimated work hours and resources required to complete the tasks assigned. Divided large / extended tasks into smaller components. Developed and documented project plans and checklists to track assignments or tasks. None of the above. 8 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.