Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience in relation to the Basic Qualification Requirements for this position. Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed description of the basic qualification requirements. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below. I have completed one (1) year of graduate level education (18 semester/27 quarter hours) with courses such as hospitality, museum studies, education or natural science. I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed education and experience that may be used to meet the experience requirements. None of the above. Specialized experience is defined as having experience: (1) Providing visitor orientation or guiding services in a public facing museum, public garden, educational or visitor services environment; (2)&nbsp;Presenting factual or interpretive information regarding exhibits, facilities, programs, or services to individuals or groups; and (3)&nbsp;Ensuring the safety of customers, when necessary. 2 Do you have experience working in a museum, public garden, cultural institution, or similar educational visitor environment providing visitor services or public engagement support? &nbsp; &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list the organization at which you worked and the title you held when you gained this experience. Please make sure this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 500 characters. No 3 Which statement best describes your experience delivering interpretive or educational content in a museum, public garden, or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required I have no experience delivering interpretive or educational content. I have provided basic scripted information to visitors. I have independently explained exhibits, collections, or programs and answered visitor questions. I have delivered interpretive talks, guided tours, or educational presentations tailored to different audiences. 4 Which statement best describes your experience handling complex visitor interactions (e.g., dissatisfied visitors, accessibility concerns, security related inquiries)? Answer to this question is required I have not handled complex visitor interactions. I have referred complex issues to supervisors. I have independently resolved routine and non-routine visitor issues. I have resolved complex issues and coordinated with security or leadership when necessary. 5 Which statement best describes your experience managing visitor flow in high volume cultural or public environments? Answer to this question is required I have no experience managing visitor flow. I have assisted with visitor flow under supervision. I have independently directed visitors and managed crowd movement. I have coordinated crowd management with staff or security to ensure safety and operational efficiency. 6 Select the types of individuals you have interacted with in a customer facing environment. Answer to this question is required Parents or chaperones responsible for children Children Individuals who didn`t speak English fluently Elderly individuals Strongly opinionated or stubborn individuals Individuals complaining about an experience, service or product High-status individuals (e.g., Members of Congress) None of the above 7 Describe your experience tailoring interpretive messaging for diverse audiences (e.g., children, educators, international visitors, subject-matter enthusiasts). Answer to this question is required I have no experience tailoring messaging for different audiences. I have provided general information with limited adaptation. I have adapted explanations to audience knowledge level, age, or interest. I have designed or delivered differentiated interpretive experiences for multiple audience types. 8 Which strategies have you applied to interact with people from diverse backgrounds? Answer to this question is required Asking questions to clarify information Approaching people who look confused or disoriented to offer assistance Observing individuals to determine if support services are needed Offering the use of assistive devices (e.g., wheelchairs, audio tours) None of the above 9 Do you have experience remaining calm and professional when interacting with difficult or demanding individuals? Answer to this question is required Yes No 10 Which statement best describes your experience enhancing visitor engagement and experience quality? Answer to this question is required I have not been responsible for visitor engagement quality. I have followed established engagement procedures. I have independently engaged visitors and adjusted interactions to improve their experience. I have proactively enhanced engagement and provided recommendations to improve visitor experience outcomes. 11 Which of the following best describes your experience working in a mission driven visitor services team? Answer to this question is required I have no experience working in a visitor services team. I have worked on a team under close supervision. I have independently collaborated with team members to support visitor operations. I have served as a lead or provided guidance on visitor engagement practices. 12 Which activities have you performed to provide service to customers or visitors? Answer to this question is required Orienting visitors to the location, facility, or amenities Welcoming visitors/customers and providing assistance Providing basic information about services (e.g., hours of operation, directions to location) Requesting compliance with unpopular or unwelcome policies Providing information about other related attractions or amenities Assisting customers seeking a specific item or information None of the above 13 Which of the following best describes your experience applying safety, security, and operational protocols in a public cultural institution? Answer to this question is required I have no experience applying formal safety or security protocols. I have followed safety procedures when instructed. I have independently applied protocols and reported concerns. I have served as a point of contact or assisted with emergency or security coordination. 14 Describe your experience providing accessibility and inclusive visitor services (e.g., ADA accommodations, inclusive communication practices). Answer to this question is required I have no experience with accessibility or inclusive services. I have followed accessibility procedures when directed. I have independently provided accessibility assistance to visitors. I have anticipated accessibility needs and ensured inclusive visitor engagement. 15 Describe your experience communicating scientific, historical, or cultural content in a public-facing role. Answer to this question is required I have no experience communicating specialized content. I have communicated basic factual information. I have independently explained scientific, historical, or cultural concepts to visitors. I have translated complex concepts into accessible public education content. 16 This is a permanent, part-time position, and pay is based on an hourly rate. Do you understand and acknowledge the part-time nature of this position and that full-time hours are not guaranteed? Answer to this question is required Yes No 17 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.