Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Federal Bureau of Prisons Merit Promotions - Seeker Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position. 1 You must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? Answer to this question is required Yes No ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience. 2 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit encourages and coordinates, logistics and administrative matters and the management of subordinate employees. He/she fosters commitment and team spirit to provide relevant protective operations while applying subject matter expertise. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have participated in a task force to increase security measures and recommended modifications to procedures; and/or I have facilitated a program/operational review or comparable internal/external audit and certified compliance; and/or I have participated in the development of pilot projects regarding operations or security issues; and/or I have led a correctional institution committee to formulate institution policy. I have performed institutional support as an institution or administrative duty officer; and/or I have presented Introduction to Correctional Techniques Phase I to new staff in a correctional facility; and/or I have participated in program or operational review; and/or I have served as a member of a disciplinary committee in a correctional environment; and/or I have coordinated shakedowns, drug searches, emergency counts, and accountability checks; and/or I have recommended improvements that were implemented to enhance institution operations. I have identified a need and established a counseling or training program for inmates or correctional workers; and/or I have assisted in conducting management assessments or staff assistance visits at a correctional institution; and/or I have coordinated the duty officer program for the institution. None of the above. 3 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit must make sound, well-informed and objective decisions. He/she must perceive the impact and implications of decisions even in uncertain situations, to accomplish the mission and security concerns of the agency. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have activated a command center, hostage negotiations, or tactical operations center (i.e., during a natural disaster or riot); and/or I have provided training for Executive Staff, department heads, duty officers, or others in the operation of the command center; and/or I have provided emergency management training during Annual Training or equivalent; and/or I have implemented new emergency management procedures received from the national level; and/or I have initiated a staff recall procedure during an institution disturbance (i.e. a homicide, rival gang conflict, riot, racial altercation, or major fire); and/or I have developed Memorandums of Understanding with local law enforcement; and/or I have coordinated mock exercises or crisis management drills with various departments. I have coordinated operations within the command center in a crisis situation; and/or I have developed enhanced emergency response procedures in an institution (i.e., staged emergency equipment, developed and implemented new procedures for staff used in response to emergencies, trained staff in the use of less lethal munitions); and/or I have organized, initiated, developed and presented crisis management training to local law enforcement in the community; and/or I have developed, organized, and presented crisis management training by coordinating efforts of other departments; and/or I have planned, managed, and coordinated activities for an emergency response team; and/or I have led an after-action review involving a crisis management situation (i.e., a homicide or an escape). I have directed teams in the gathering of evidence after major altercation/disturbance; and/or I have identified inmates who should be moved to higher security level institutions after reviewing evidence/documents; and/or I have directed a staff emergency squad to secure a housing unit; and/or I have directed the emergency medical evacuation of inmates during a crisis. None of the above. 4 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit communicates on a regular and recurring basis with a variety of individuals, ranging from the general public to high level officials both internal and external to the agency/organization. He/she must possess comprehensive oral communication skills to interact in a manner which safeguards the most sensitive information and mitigates the risk to the Director&rsquo;s reputation. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have served on a workforce utilization committee; and/or I have presented a presentation to organization’s management officials on emergency materials; and/or I have provided informal training to co-workers on implementation of a new procedure. I have briefed Executive Staff/upper management on case information; and/or I have provided recommendations to the Warden/Chief Executive Officer as part of an after-action review committee; and/or I have served on a task force with Executive Staff/upper management to develop and modify programs or procedures; and/or I have made presentations to department heads. I have participated on a work group which included members of the Executive Staff/upper management from other agencies; and/or I have represented agency/organization at a briefing with members of Congress or their staff; and/or I have prepared and presented agency statements for the national news media; and/or I have given interviews to news media on sensitive issues; and/or I have given formal presentations to the Executive Staff/upper management of an organization/agency; and/or I have provided advice to field offices regarding public affairs or other highly sensitive issues; and/or I have interacted with other federal agencies to resolve complex, technical issues related to a specific program area; and/or I have coordinated instructional needs and requirements with vendor; and/or I have served as a chief negotiator with labor union. None of the above. 5 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit must review and approve operational plans, site and route surveys, and situational reports prior to and during travel. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have led a task force charged with updating/streamlining current local procedures; and/or I have reviewed current internal policy/procedures to ensure compliance with national policy or standards; and/or I have made recommendations based on statistical information to improve current programs or processes; and/or I have made budgetary recommendations based on specific reports provided by the business office; and/or I have set specific standards for subordinate managers and held them accountable for meeting those goals. I have guided efforts to apprehend an escapee by ordering an emergency count, manning of escape posts, and dispatching officers; and/or I have led a review team for an emergency preparedness or vulnerability threat assessment; and/or I have led or assisted the leader in a special operations response or tactical operations team. I have analyzed and evaluated a major disturbance and recommended methods to improve operations/efficiency; and/or I have updated joint intelligence and emergency preparedness policies or procedures based on review of governing policies, laws and regulations; and/or I have reprogrammed current division/unit/office workforce to optimize staffing utilization plans and goals; and/or I have analyzed current trends and practices and submitted a position allocation proposal to meet future needs/goals of division/unit/office. None of the above. 6 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit must assess strengths, weaknesses, and areas for improvements for operations and movements of the Director/designee. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have performed risk assessments of Bureau of Prisons policy, procedures and physical security aspects to support/direct development and publication of intelligence related publications (i.e., security alerts, Security Threat Group Briefing, intelligence trends); and/or I have served as a troubleshooter/liaison in dealing with management problems; and/or I have gathered and collected statistics for annual/special reports which directly impacted decisions made by higher level managers/agency officials; and/or I have participated on a task force which analyzed national problems between management and line staff and provided recommended methods to effectively resolve issues to the satisfaction of all parties involved; and/or I have gathered data and proposed changes in evaluating agency/organization practices that impacted significant programs on a national level. I have conducted database research in coordination with other task forces and members; and/or I have analyzed inmate telephone calls and correspondence, financial records, visitor and community connections, and custody related contacts regarding inmates of greatest concern and other correctional issues; and/or I have conducted a research project which involved data collection and the presentations of suggestions for future research. I have determined workforce characteristics by the statistical analysis of a variety of information; and/or I have maintained legislative/correspondence files as a reference point in completing similar assignments; and/or I have updated existing emergency management procedures. None of the above. 7 The Chief, Protective Operations Unit is responsible for the program development and full managerial oversight regarding protection operations and threat mitigation for the Bureau of Prisons Director. He/she will ensure his/her staff have complete understanding and application of policy, procedures, and guidelines in Use of Force to sufficiently perform their jobs. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience. I have completed performance evaluations on subordinates which addressed individual strength and weaknesses; and/or I have adjusted staff duties to respond to immediate needs of division/office/unit; and/or I have led or chaired a project/task force which involved the coordination with and cooperation of other departments/divisions; and/or I have submitted recommendations for awards; and/or I have counseled employees prior to initiating performance based disciplinary actions. I have combined monthly staff meeting with technical training sessions which improved subordinate employees job knowledge; and/or I have utilized the performance appraisal system to track assignments and ensure all deadlines are met by subordinate workforce; and/or I have developed and facilitated a training class designed to improve performance or career development; and/or I have coached and mentored subordinates through formal mentoring program; and/or I have successfully resolved staff grievances before it escalated to higher level for action; and/or I have implemented staff work assignments which maximized subordinate work product and increased morale. I have coordinated due dates for division/office/unit projects and tracked subordinate workload for completion; and/or I have reorganized subordinate staff functions to maximize work output; and/or I have instructed a class to improve performance or offer career development opportunities; and/or I have incorporated training into recurring division/office/unit meetings to improve/enhance subordinate job knowledge; and/or I have reviewed work completed by others to ensure compliance with governing regulations; and/or I have identified employee performance deficiencies and established/implemented an improvement plan; and/or I have negotiated issues with local union president which enhanced operations/work environment of subordinate staff. None of the above. Grade: All Grades NOTE: Bureau of Prisons' applicants hired for a position in a correctional institution are considered correctional workers and must be able to perform correctional work regardless of their specific occupation. One requirement of the hiring process is for applicants to complete an Applicant Assessment. The purpose of the assessment is to ensure applicants possess the core values and behaviors required for success at a federal correctional institution. Applicants must complete and pass the Applicant Assessment to be considered for employment with the Bureau of Prisons. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question.&nbsp; Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question.&nbsp; You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 1 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 2 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 3 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 4 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 5 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False 6 How did you hear about this employment opportunity with the Bureau of Prisons (BOP)? Private information service Magazine Newspaper Radio Television Poster/Flyer Private employment office State Employment/Unemployment Office or Career Service Center State or local Job Information Center BOP Employee Services Department (bulletin board or other form announcement) School or college counselor or other official Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college Recruitment event (other than school or college) Friend or relative working for the BOP Friend or relative not working for the BOP Religious organization USAJOBS, the official job site of the US Federal Government BOP Website Internet job site Contacted the BOP on my own Military publication Military Separation Center Professional Organization Federal Job Publication (i.e., Federal Jobs Digest, etc) Other Thank you for applying for a position with the Federal Bureau of Prisons. We appreciate you taking the time to complete this survey. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to your HR Specialist This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).