Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position in order to minimally qualify for this position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and/or experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Do you meet the requirements for this position, and have the ability to perform the work of the position without more than normal supervision? Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Do you possess journey-level painting skills? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Are you willing and able to work on ladders up to 24 feet high, and on man lifts and some scaffolding (lower than 30 feet)? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Select the surface preparation techniques that you have applied. Answer to this question is required Solvent cleaning Hand tool cleaning Power tool cleaning Water jetting Chemical stripping Abrasive blast cleaning Steam stripping Hot-Air stripping Laser removal None of the above 5 Select the procedures you have used to repair minor imperfections in wood surfaces. Answer to this question is required Graining Sanding Spot Priming Surfaces Sealing Knots Filling Imperfections Feathering Imperfections by Sanding Wood Conditioner None of the above 6 Select the equipment that you have used to apply coating. Answer to this question is required Brushes and rollers Conventional sprayers Airless and air-assisted sprayers High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) sprayers None of the above 7 Select the tools that you have used. Answer to this question is required Tape measures Compass Protractors Scale rulers T-squares French curves Straight edges Levels Lasers Basic brushes and rollers Putty knives Spray equipment Mahl sticks Roller polls 3M tape machines Caulking guns None of the above 8 What types of surfaces have you applied paint? Select all that apply. Answer to this question is required Wood Metal Glass Synthetic Concrete Drywall / Plaster Other Surfaces None of the above 9 Select the elevated support products you have used, constructed, erected, and disassembled. Answer to this question is required Scaffolds (Mechanical, ground-based, rolling, stationary, ladder jack) Aerial work platforms Aluminum and wooden planks Extension ladders Swing stages Step ladders None of the above 10 I have interpreted and closely followed oral instructions given by others. Answer to this question is required True False 11 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other 11.1 Please indicate where you heard about this AOC job opportunity. Maximum length of 250 characters. None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.