Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-14 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Select the foreign affairs activities that you have performed: Answer to this question is required Prepared a white paper on a particular foreign affairs issue. Delivered a presentation on a foreign affairs issue at a government or industry meeting. Created and implemented an international business development strategy. Analyzed classified or unclassified intelligence reports. None of the above. 2 Select the choice which BEST describes your experience in negotiating or promoting U.S. policy positions in bilateral and multilateral negotiations with foreign governments: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 3 Which of the following BEST describes your experience providing all-source intelligence analysis regarding foreign nuclear weapons programs and developments? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in this task. I have education and/or training in this task, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely performed this task as part of my job, usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed this task as part of my job, usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task. I have trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me for assistance. 4 Which of the following BEST describes your background regarding Chinese politics, internal dynamics, leadership, security, and foreign policies? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience regarding Chinese politics, internal dynamics, leadership, security, or foreign policies. I have education or training regarding Chinese politics, internal dynamics, leadership, security, and foreign policies, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have routinely performed work regarding Chinese politics, internal dynamics, leadership, security, and foreign policies as part of my job, and usually with review by supervisor or senior employees. I have routinely and independently performed work regarding Chinese politics, internal dynamics, leadership, security, and foreign policies as part of my job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled in performing work regarding Chinese politics, internal dynamics, leadership, security, and foreign policies, having trained others in this capacity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 5 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied: Answer to this question is required Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. None of the above. 6 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable import to the organization`s mission I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action None of the above 7 Which of the following indicates your highest level of education or training handling and storing classified and sensitive information? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in the proper handling and storage of classified and sensitive information. I have education or training in the proper handling and storage of classified and sensitive information, but have NOT yet performed it on the job. I have properly handled and stored classified and sensitive information on the job under close supervision. I have properly handled and stored classified and sensitive information as a regular part of the job without supervision. I am highly skilled at properly handling and storing classified and sensitive information on the job and have trained others to perform this task. 8 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established liaison within the foreign affairs community? Answer to this question is required Senior Government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Academia Think Tanks Government organizations Private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-Governmental Organizations Congress (members or staff) International organization (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign Government officials General Public Military officials None of the above 9 Which of the following BEST describes your experience with foreign affairs information sources to assist senior officials in the conduct of U.S. foreign policy? Answer to this question is required I use these sources, as necessary, to inform my own position in working-level interactions. I rely upon these sources to create accurate and persuasive arguments for senior foreign policy officials. I interact almost daily with these sources as part of my continuing responsibilities to advise senior officials directly. I have only minimal experience with these sources. I have trained others on the use of foreign affairs information sources. 10 Select the statement(s) that describe(s) your communication skills: Answer to this question is required I have represented and spoke on behalf of my organizational unit and its work to those within and outside the office. I have made clear and convincing presentations to individuals and groups. I have facilitated an open exchange of ideas. I have established and maintained working relationships with internal organizational units. I have approached each problem / situation with a clear perception of organizational and political reality. I have used contacts to build and strengthen internal support bases. I have developed and enhanced alliances with external groups. I have engaged in cross-functional activities. I have found common ground with a wide range of stakeholders. I have worked in groups and teams. I have conducted briefings and other meetings. I have gained cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals. I have facilitated controversial / complex situations. I have considered and responded appropriately to the needs, feelings, and capabilities of different people in different situations. I ensure that reports, memoranda, and other documents reflect the position and work of the organization in a clear, convincing, and organized manner. I have the authority to speak on behalf of my organization in making decisions in one or more program areas. None of the above. 11 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.