Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 1 GS-13: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. 2 What type of editing have you performed? Answer to this question is required Copy editing Editing for content Editing for grammar and spelling Editing for factual accuracy Editing for length Editing for style None of the above 3 From the following list, please indicate the type(s) of documents you have edited: Answer to this question is required Policy guidance Technical reports Speeches Intelligence assessments Internal memoranda Briefing papers Books Academic papers Journal and/or news articles Internet blogs on professional subjects Dissertation Thesis Maps and infographics None of the above 4 Which of the following describes your experience reviewing written products for clarity of expression and accuracy? Answer to this question is required I have edited a variety of technical or specialized materials, such as materials for an analytical or research program. I have worked as an editor with extensive editing responsibilities on a variety of specialized subject matter functions. I have developed editorial policies and practices, such as developing style manuals or setting procedural standards to be followed by other staff. I have edited materials or reports to be presented to senior officials. I have completed formal education related to writing and editing material. None of the above. 5 With which of the following officials / organizations have you established working relationships? Answer to this question is required Senior government officials Senior corporate officials Colleagues Supervisors Members of the academic community Members of government organizations Members of private industry Technical experts Professional organizations Non-governmental organizations Congress (members or staff) International organizations (members or staff) Media representatives Foreign government officials Community organizations None of the above 6 From the following choices, identify the types of oral communications in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Briefing papers Briefing superiors / supervisors Briefing decision-makers Communicating with hostile persons or groups Persuading or recommending action Instructing, teaching Participating in team exercises Briefing large groups (more than 30 participants) Explaining abstract concepts Providing guidance to subordinates Briefing small groups (less than 15 participants) None of the above 7 Which of the following types of documents have you written? Answer to this question is required Academic reports Government or official reports Newspaper, magazine, or journal articles Press releases Technical documents Speeches Books Publications Policy guidance Opinion papers / decision memos None of the above 8 Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material. Answer to this question is required I have written analytical reports for internal audiences. I have written analytical reports for external audiences. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience. I have prepared and presented issue papers and or briefings to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels. I have reviewed and edited reports for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences. None of the above. 9 From the following list, please identify all of the types of situations you have performed: Answer to this question is required Managed multiple tasks. Set milestones and deadlines for assignments. Briefed staff and management on status of assignments. Provided guidance, direction, or instruction to individuals. Reacted effectively to unforeseen events or delays. Rearranged priorities and work assignments based on the actions of others. Assisted my team or staff in determining how best to use their time and reprioritize their work as situations warrant. None of the above. 10 I have experience editing documents written by others and can apply the following skills: Answer to this question is required Reading and understanding document standards and identifying areas where the document does not meet those standards. Reorganizing the content of a document for greater clarity. Checking for required reading level and offering suggestions to the writer. Identifying errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation, and numbering. Identifying errors in numbering, margins, indentation and style. Negotiating content changes with the writer. None of the above. 11 Which of the following software tools have you used to develop documents? Answer to this question is required Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Corel WordPerfect Adobe Acrobat Adobe InDesign None of the above 12 Which of the following types of computer programs / applications do you use as a regular part of your job? Answer to this question is required Word processing Presentation software Spreadsheets Databases E-mail applications Internet browsers Desktop publishing Image or video editing None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.