Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 1 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience. Answer to this question is required I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in museum work; or in an applicable subject-matter field. I have appropriate combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major as shown 1. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I have four years of experience that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study as shown in 1. above. I do not have the basic experience for the position. 2 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at the next lower grade level in the Federal service or equivalent as described in the qualifications section of the Vacancy Announcement. This experience has been obtained in the public, private, or non-profit sectors. I do NOT have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described above 3 What types of personnel do you have experience supervising? (indicate all that apply) Answer to this question is required Full-time personnel. Part-time personnel. Interns. Volunteers. Private-sector contractors. Students and research assistants. Fellows. I do not have any experience with personnel supervising. 4 Which of the following statements describe your ability to lead or supervise? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance to subordinate employees or peers. I have reviewed subordinate’s work. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, selective consideration of the difficulty, requirements of the assignments, and capabilities of the employees. I have evaluated performance of subordinates. I have identified the developmental and training needs of employees. I have ensured that staff are appropriately used, developed, and treated in a fair and equitable manner. I have provided positive/negative feedback to an employee during a mid-year or end-of-year performance evaluation. I have resolved complaints from staff or employees. I have not been a supervisor but have served as a team leader in planning and monitoring work performed by others. I have not done any of the above tasks. 5 Which of the following leadership functions have you performed successfully in projects that you led or were assigned senior staff responsibility? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have set project goals, deadlines, and expectations. I have planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members. I have assigned tasks and responsibilities to project/team members. I have reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. I have followed up with project/team members to assure timeliness in meeting deadlines. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among project/team members. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results. I have reported progress to senior management. I have implemented work completed. I have evaluated the effectiveness of completed projects. None of the above. 6 Which of the following describes your experience with publishing research? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched and compiled bibliographies for inclusion in publications. I have been a co-author for a published article on modern and contemporary art. I have been the first author for a published article on modern and contemporary art. I have contributed a chapter or essay to a book or catalog on modern and contemporary art. I have been the main author of a book or catalog on modern and contemporary art. I have given a talk or presented a paper at a conference on modern and contemporary art. I have participated on a panel at a conference on modern and contemporary art. None of the above. 7 Which of the following activities do you have experience conducting research-related modern and contemporary art? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched objects for documentation and cataloging. I have researched and written object labels for exhibitions. I have given lectures based on my own research. I have researched topics and written exhibition labels. I have published research articles. I have interviewed numerous experts inside and outside an organization. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above. 8 Which of the following types of written products have you prepared? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Object labels. Exhibition scripts. Museum publications. Scholarly publications. Website content. Formal correspondence. Collection reports. Other written communication. None of the above. 9 Which of the following represents your experience researching and writing about museum collections? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked independently to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked as part of a team to research and write about one or more collections. I have worked under supervision to research and write about one or more collections. I have interviewed object donors and numerous experts inside and outside of an organization to gather information. I have gathered information through online research. None of the above. 10 Which of the following curatorial functions have you performed in the field of contemporary art? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted scholarly research on contemporary art. I have developed a contemporary art collection, identified gaps and recommended objects for acquisition. I have served as a consultant in the curatorial field of contemporary art. I have answered public inquiries on contemporary art. I have lectured to professional audiences on contemporary art. I have lectured to other audiences on contemporary art. I have made recommendations on the significance of a contemporary art exhibition or catalog. I have assisted with the planning and development of a contemporary art exhibition or catalog. I have been the curator responsible for developing a contemporary art exhibition. None of the above. 11 Choose from the following list, the type of art collections you have been responsible for curating. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Chinese art American Art Asian art Modern art (up to 1959) Contemporary art African art Graphics art None of the above 12 Which of the following collections development tasks have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have researched an existing collection of artworks. I have identified gaps and potential growth opportunities for an art collection. I have made recommendations on potential acquisitions based on the significance of the object or artist. I have made recommendations on potential acquisitions based on object condition or conservation needs. I have acquired new collection items through auctions or galleries. I have acquired new collection items through direct purchase from private sources. I have acquired new collection items through donation. None of the above. 13 Which of the following best represents your experience in developing museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in the development of exhibitions. I have developed museum installations. I have worked as part of a team to develop exhibitions. I have developed exhibitions or installations in an arts center or similar setting. I have independently developed multiple museum exhibitions including borrowed objects and related programs and publications. I have curated museum exhibitions which toured to other venues. None of the above 14 Which of the following statements describe your experience with museum exhibitions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have worked in a museum or arts center with changing exhibitions. I have worked in a museum exhibitions office. I have created or revised exhibition checklists in a museum. I have worked with multiple versions of exhibition checklists while ensuring use of the most recent information. I have tracked or monitored exhibition production schedules. I have produced or constructed exhibition components. I have coordinated production of exhibition components. I have not performed any of the above tasks. 15 Which of the following best reflects your knowledge of art exhibition planning and production? (Check one) Answer to this question is required I have supervised more than three exhibitions per year in a museum setting, interacting with internal and external colleagues; maintained and reviewed schedules, checklists, and budgets; and proposed or negotiated solutions to scheduling, exhibition preparations or budget and financial concerns. I have supervised more than one exhibition per year in a museum setting, interacting with multiple offices and external lenders; maintained and reviewed schedules, checklists, and budgets; and notified senior staff of potential problems, recommending resolutions. I have supervised one exhibition per year in a museum setting, interacting with multiple offices; compiling and distributing schedules, checklists, and budgets; and notifying senior staff of potential problems. I have worked on exhibitions in a museum setting, monitoring timelines and budgets, interacting mostly with people in my own office. I have assisted with work on exhibitions in a museum setting, interacting with people in my office and assisting with meeting office deadlines. I do not have museum-based experience in exhibition planning and production. 16 Which of the following describes your curatorial experience? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have curated museum exhibitions I have assisted with the curation of museum exhibitions I have curated exhibitions in non-museum spaces I have assisted with the curation of exhibitions in non-museum spaces I have curated digital exhibitions I have assisted with the curation of digital exhibitions None of the above. 17 Do you have experience formulating and managing intra-departmental budgets? Answer to this question is required Yes No 18 Which of the following tasks best describes your experience with managing budgets? Answer to this question is required I have helped develop budgets based on prior expenditures for similar projects. I have monitored a project budget and expenses to ensure the projects remained within limits. I have monitored multiple project budgets to ensure all projects remained within limits. I have assisted in the development of multi-year, project budgets while collaborating with multiple departments and ensuring the budgets remain on track. I have developed multi-year project budgets (including for traveling exhibitions) while collaborating with multiple departments to ensure all anticipated expenses are captured and projects remained within limits. I have not done any of the above tasks. 19 Which of the following best describes your experience demonstrating your ability to oversee exhibition planning and development? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience leading a team in planning and developing a major exhibition. I have experience being responsible for the research and content development for exhibitions. I have experience being responsible for managing the budget and schedule for a major exhibition. I have experience having led evaluation for exhibition projects. I have experience being familiar with the principles and techniques of participatory exhibitions. I have performed no activities related to exhibition planning and development. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.