Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 1 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet one of the basic requirements to qualify for this Advanced Practice Nurse position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications. Answer to this question is required I have a graduate or higher level degree in nursing from an accredited educational program in the area of expertise or specialty indicated in the Requirements section of the announcement AND I am licensed or registered by a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States in the clinical specialty indicated in the Requirements section of the announcement. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 2 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet one of the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications: Answer to this question is required I have a graduate or higher degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. The education was accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was earned. I graduated from a foreign nursing school and have an official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 As described in the vacancy announcement, applicants MUST meet one of the basic requirements to qualify for this position. Select the response that best describes your qualifications: Answer to this question is required I passed the National Council Licensure Examination and have a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 4 In addition to the Basic Requirements above, applicants must also meet one of the qualification requirements, as described in the announcement, to qualify for this position. Select the response below that best describes your qualifications for the GS-14 grade level. Answer to this question is required I have 1 or more full years of professional nursing experience that is equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service and provided me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, as described in the Requirements section of the announcement. My experience does not match the choice above. 5 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.