Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Knowledge of event planning and execution.** Planned, organized, coordinated, and assessed complex events and handled all major details including: 1) budget, 2) guest lists, 3) printed materials, and 4) space and equipment needs. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, organized, coordinated, and assessed various large, complex, major, special events involving high ranking officials in ALL of the following settings: 1) government, 2) private industry and 3) social. This involved providing extensive guidance on protocol and logistics while simultaneously handling ALL OF THE ABOVE major details. Independently planned, organized, coordinated, and assessed various large, complex, major, special events involving high ranking officials in TWO (2) of the following settings: 1) government, 2) private industry and 3) social. This involved providing extensive guidance on protocol and logistics while simultaneously handling ALL OF THE ABOVE major details. Independently planned, organized, coordinated, and assessed various large, complex, major, special events involving high ranking officials in ONE (1) of the following settings: 1) government, 2) private industry and 3) social. This involved providing extensive guidance on protocol and logistics while simultaneously handling ALL OF THE ABOVE major details. None of the Above 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to adapt in a fast paced and demanding special events work environment.** Worked productively, effectively and accurately in a fast paced and demanding special events work environment. This includes processing multiple types of information and/or performing multiple tasks efficiently. This includes the ability to adjust priorities to multiple demands and unanticipated events, adjust decisions and actions to new information, and maintain effective interactions with others under stressful working conditions. Performed various special events and official function work assignments for an agency/organization. This included, but is not limited to the following: 1) exhibition openings, 2) cultural ceremonies and celebrations, 3) visits by outside groups, 4) meetings and conferences, and 5) luncheons, dinners and receptions. Answer to this question is required Independently coordinated MULTIPLE complex events simultaneously while responding to various individuals. Independently coordinated a SINGLE complex event while responding to various individuals. With minor supervision, coordinated a SINGLE complex event while responding to various individuals. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to meet and deal with others.** Developed and maintained effective working relationships with others (in-house organizations, other government agencies, contractors, vendors, VIPs, dignitaries, political officials, staff at all levels and the general public) to provide positive and professional services related to special events planning Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, regularly served as the principal special events coordinator for a large multi-functional agency, collaborating with a wide variety of persons inside and outside the organization to ensure complex special event matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Communicated and negotiated with persons who often held divergent views or opposing goals to resolve problems and issues. As a primary job responsibility, regularly served as the principal special events coordinator for an organization, collaborating with a wide variety of persons inside and outside the organization to ensure complex special event matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Served as the backup special events coordinator for a small company, collaborating with persons inside the organization to ensure special event matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. None of the Above 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate in writing. Communicated information in writing in the performance of special events planning. Answer to this question is required Independently wrote, edited, and reviewed various documents related to events including ALL of the following: 1) budgets, 2) logistical support plans, 3) printed materials such as invitations, agendas, brochures, name tags/tent cards, 4) policies and procedures, 5) surveys, 6) project management plans, and 7) status reports and other documents. Audiences for these documents included individuals inside and outside an organization. Independently wrote, edited, and reviewed various documents related to events including FIVE (5) OR SIX (6) of the above documents. Audiences for these documents included individuals inside and outside an organization. Independently wrote, edited, and reviewed various documents related to events including FOUR (4) of the above documents. Audiences for these documents included individuals inside and outside an organization. None of the Above 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to utilize computer technology. Used computer technology in support of event planning and the ongoing operation of an office, including 1) word-processing; 2) spreadsheets; 3) electronic mail and electronic calendar; 4) event management systems; 5) presentation and web conferencing software; 6) internet and 7) survey software. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely used ALL OF THE ABOVE software in support of event planning and ongoing operation of an office. Independently used AT LEAST FIVE (5) of the above software in support of event planning and ongoing operation of an office. Independently used AT LEAST FOUR (4) of the above software in support of event planning and ongoing operation of an office. None of the Above 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).