Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Department of Commerce Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 0 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades Privacy Act Statement Authority:&nbsp; 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(a), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b)(4), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 278g-1(e)(1) and (e)(3), 15 U.S.C. &sect; 272(b) and (c) Purpose:&nbsp; The National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) hosts the Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) which provides an opportunity for the NIST laboratories to encourage outstanding undergraduate students to pursue careers in science and technology. The Summer High School Intern Program (SHIP) is a NIST-wide summer intern program for students who will have finished their junior or senior year of high school by the start of the program and are interested in scientific research only. The Summer Institute for Middle School Science Teachers is a two-week workshop for middle school science teachers featuring hands-on activities, lectures, tours, and visits with NIST scientists and engineers in their laboratories.&nbsp;This information collection will serve as the application and submission process for these NIST Academic Programs. Routine Uses: &nbsp; NIST will use the information collected to perform the requisite reviews of the applications to determine eligibility, and to meet programmatic requirements. Disclosure of this information is also subject to all the published routine uses as identified in the Privacy Act System of Records Notices:&nbsp; NIST-1: NIST Associates.&nbsp; Disclosure: &nbsp; Furnishing this information is voluntary. When you submit the form, you are indicating your voluntary consent for NIST to use of the information you submit for the purpose stated. 1 Please provide your full middle name. Please enter NMN if you do not have one. Maximum length of 20 characters. Answer to this question is required 2 What is the name of your college/university? Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Where is your college or university located (city,state)? Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 What is your current class standing by year? For example, a first year student is defined as a first-year, a second year student as a sophomore, a third year student as a junior, and 4 (or more) years as a senior. Answer to this question is required First-year Sophomore Junior Senior 5 What is your major? Answer to this question is required Biochemistry Biology Biophysics Chemistry Computer Science Engineering 5.1 From the options listed, which field of engineering closely relates to your major? Aerospace Engineering Bioengineering/Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Environmental Engineering Fire Protection Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Engineering Nuclear Engineering Geology Materials Science Mathematics Physics Statistics Other 5.1 Please provide your major. Maximum length of 250 characters. 6 Do you have a second major? Answer to this question is required Yes 6.1 What is your second major? Biochemistry Biology Biophysics Chemistry Computer Science Engineering Geology Materials Science Mathematics Physics Statistics Other 6.2 If you selected Other please provide your second major. If you did not select Other please enter NA. Maximum length of 250 characters. No 7 Do you have a minor? Answer to this question is required Yes 7.1 What is your minor? Maximum length of 250 characters. No 8 What is your current cumulative G.P.A. (on a 4.0 scale)? Note: If your school does not use the conventional grading system, please indicate the equivalent. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 What is your current major G.P.A. (on a 4.0 scale)? Note: If your school does not use the conventional grading system, please indicate the equivalent. Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 The following NIST operating units participate in the SURF program: Communications Technology Laboratory (CTL), Engineering Laboratory (EL), Information Technology Laboratory (ITL), Material Measurement Laboratory (MML) in partnership with the NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR), Physical Measurement Laboratory (PML), &amp; Other Offices, such as Standards Coordination Office, Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Office of Advanced Manufacturing &amp; Technology Partnerships Office. All applicants must identify and select their first and second choice host laboratories. Applicants should choose laboratories carefully. The completed application is considered primarily by the first-choice host laboratory. Please review the laboratory descriptions and acceptance rates at https://www.nist.gov/surf/surf-gaithersburg/research-programs .&nbsp; I acknowledge the host laboratory choices are made at the sole discretion of the applicant &nbsp; and cannot be changed after the closing date of the announcement . Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 11 Select your first-choice host NIST laboratoryoffice from the options shown below. Note: MML offers three programmatic choices: Chemical/Biochemical Sciences, Materials Science which includes projects at the NCNR, and Computational Materials Science.&nbsp;Additionally, note that computational science opportunities are available in all laboratories. Answer to this question is required Communications Technology Laboratory (CTL): The program researches and develops models, performance metrics, and measurement techniques for wireless communications networks. The lab’s work supports broadband public safety communications, monitoring and sharing the electromagnetic spectrum for more efficient wireless communications, and developing future generations of low-delay, high-speed, ultra-reliable wireless networks. Staff at CTL in Gaithersburg include computer engineers, computer scientists, and electrical engineers who specialize in signal processing. Find additional information about CTL at https://www.nist.gov/ctl/ctl-2022-surf-program. Engineering Laboratory (EL): The program develops measurements and standards that foster U.S. advanced manufacturing and construction industry competitiveness; improve building, home, and fire safety; and reduce the environmental impact of buildings and manufacturing activities. Find additional information about EL at https://www.nist.gov/el/surf-program. Note: Electrical engineers should typically apply to PML. Information Technology Laboratory (ITL): The program provides hands-on research experiences in applied mathematics, statistics, computer security, information access, software testing, and networking technologies. Find additional information about ITL at https://www.nist.gov/itl/how-work-us/itl-surf-program. Material Measurement Laboratory (MML) and NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR): Combining the strengths of MML and the NCNR, the program provides hands-on research experiences in three concentrations: Chemical/Biochemical Sciences, Materials Science which includes projects at the NCNR, and Computational Materials Science. Find additional information about MML and NCNR at https://www.nist.gov/mml/mmlncnr-summer-undergraduate-research-fellowship-program-surf. 11.1 Select the appropriate MML concentration from the options provided. Chemical/Biochemical Sciences: This concentration addresses the nation’s needs for measurements, standards, technology development, and reference data in the areas broadly encompassed by chemistry, biotechnology, and chemical engineering. Computational Materials Science: This concentration includes the application of modeling, simulation, and computational methods to enhance the understanding of innovative materials and devices. Note: This concentration includes projects within the Materials Genome Initiative. Materials Science: This concentration focuses on the synthesis, measurement, and theory of innovative materials and devices, including projects from the NCNR. A limited number of nuclear engineering and reactor operations projects are also available at the NCNR. Physical Measurement Laboratory (PML): The program provides hands-on research experiences in atomic, molecular, optical, radiation, chemical, and condensed matter physics. Other research areas include electrical engineering and metrology related to new electronic device development, electrical Smart Grid deployment, and precision measurement of fundamental units to serve industry’s need for improved and standardized measurements. Find additional information about PML at https://www.nist.gov/pml/pml-summer-undergraduate-research-fellowship-program. Other offices, such as Special Programs Office (SPO), Standards Coordination Office (SCO), Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), Office of Advanced Manufacturing (OAM) and Technology Partnerships Office (TPO) may provide special technical projects. Students searching for an economic, international analysis focus, or science policy may be interested in these projects. 12 Select your second-choice host NIST laboratory/office from the options shown below. Note: MML offers three programmatic choices: Chemical/Biochemical Sciences, Materials Science which includes projects at the NCNR, and Computational Materials Science.&nbsp;Additionally, note that computational science opportunities are available in all laboratories. Answer to this question is required Communications Technology Laboratory (CTL): The program researches and develops models, performance metrics, and measurement techniques for wireless communications networks. The lab’s work supports broadband public safety communications, monitoring and sharing the electromagnetic spectrum for more efficient wireless communications, and developing future generations of low-delay, high-speed, ultra-reliable wireless networks. Staff at CTL in Gaithersburg include computer engineers, computer scientists, and electrical engineers who specialize in signal processing. Find additional information about CTL at https://www.nist.gov/ctl/ctl-2022-surf-program. Engineering Laboratory (EL): The program develops measurements and standards that foster U.S. advanced manufacturing and construction industry competitiveness; improve building, home, and fire safety; and reduce the environmental impact of buildings and manufacturing activities. Find additional information about EL at https://www.nist.gov/el/surf-program. Note: Electrical engineers should typically apply to PML. Information Technology Laboratory (ITL): The program provides hands-on research experiences in applied mathematics, statistics, computer security, information access, software testing, and networking technologies. Find additional information about ITL at https://www.nist.gov/itl/how-work-us/itl-surf-program. Material Measurement Laboratory (MML) and the NIST Center for Neutron Research (NCNR): Combining the strengths of MML and the NCNR, the program provides hands-on research experiences in three concentrations: Chemical/Biochemical Sciences, Materials Science which includes projects at the NCNR, and Computational Materials Science. Find additional information about MML and NCNR at https://www.nist.gov/mml/mmlncnr-summer-undergraduate-research-fellowship-program-surf. 12.1 Select the appropriate MML concentration from the options provided. Chemical/Biochemical Sciences: This concentration addresses the nation’s needs for measurements, standards, technology development, and reference data in the areas broadly encompassed by chemistry, biotechnology, and chemical engineering. Computational Materials Science: This concentration includes the application of modeling, simulation, and computational methods to enhance the understanding of innovative materials and devices. Note: This concentration includes projects within the Materials Genome Initiative. Materials Science: This concentration focuses on the synthesis, measurement, and theory of innovative materials and devices, including projects from the NCNR. A limited number of nuclear engineering and reactor operations projects are also available at the NCNR. Physical Measurement Laboratory (PML): The program provides hands-on research experiences in atomic, molecular, optical, radiation, chemical, and condensed matter physics. Other research areas include electrical engineering and metrology related to new electronic device development, electrical Smart Grid deployment, and precision measurement of fundamental units to serve industry’s need for improved and standardized measurements. Find additional information about PML at https://www.nist.gov/pml/pml-summer-undergraduate-research-fellowship-program. Other offices, such as Special Programs Office (SPO), Standards Coordination Office (SCO), Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), Office of Advanced Manufacturing (OAM) and Technology Partnerships Office (TPO) may provide special technical projects. Students searching for an economic, international analysis focus, or science policy may be interested in these projects. 13 Occasionally, an applicant may be a better match for a host NIST laboratory outside the selected first or second choices. Do you wish to be considered by host NIST laboratories outside of those indicated as your first and second choices? Answer to this question is required Yes No 14 Indicate your availability to participate in the program from the provided options. Your choice indicates you will be available without interruptions. Participants are NOT eligible for vacation or paid time off. Answer to this question is required 11- week program: May 27 - Aug 7, 2026 9-week program: June 8 – Aug 7, 2026 Offset 11 week program: June 8 - Aug 21, 2026 The previous options do not reflect my availability. 15 If you select option #4, "the previous options do not reflect my availability", please provide more information about your availability below. If you did not select this option please enter NA. Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 16 Do you have any previous paid or volunteer experience with NIST? Answer to this question is required Yes 16.1 Indicate your previous experience with NIST. Check all that apply. Previous experience with NIST does NOT guarantee selection for a future SURF program. Invitations to participate in the upcoming NIST SURF program stem from this year's application. SHIP SURF PREP Other paid experience Other volunteer experience 16.2 List the mentor/supervisor's name(s), laboratory affiliation, and the most recent year of experience. For example, Dr. Jane Smith, CTL, 2017. Maximum length of 300 characters. 16.3 If you are invited to participate in this year's SURF program, would you prefer to work with your previous mentor/supervisor? If yes, make sure you have selected the corresponding host NIST laboratory. Yes No No Preference No 17 Did you apply to last year's SURF Program? Answer to this question is required Yes 17.1 Did you receive an offer to participate in the last year's SURF program? Yes No No 18 Briefly indicate your interest in working on a particular project or with a specific mentor. List at most one mentor/project. Make sure you previously selected the corresponding host NIST laboratory. If this is not of interest, respond with 'No preference'. Note: Your response to this question will not negatively impact your acceptance into the program. Maximum length of 600 characters. Answer to this question is required 19 Do you have skills/experience acquired through coursework or on-the-job training with advanced laboratory techniques or equipment? Answer to this question is required Yes 19.1 Briefly provide information about your skills/experience with advanced laboratory techniques or equipment. Please include specific details in your resume. Maximum length of 300 characters. No 20 Do you have experience with the following specialized software? Answer to this question is required LabView Mathematica Matlab PyTorch TensorFlow Other None of the above 21 List other specialized software with which you have experience. Maximum length of 300 characters. Answer to this question is required 22 Do you have experience with the following computer languages? Answer to this question is required C C++ Java Python R Other None 23 Indicate your experience in other computer languages. Maximum length of 500 characters. Answer to this question is required 24 List any other special skills not previously mentioned (e.g., hands-on skills with tools, special projects, tutoring experience, extracurricular activities, data analytics, leadership positions). Maximum length of 600 characters. Answer to this question is required 25 Would you like to address any extenuating circumstances that are not mentioned elsewhere in your application or supporting documents? Answer to this question is required Yes 25.1 Address extenuating circumstances in the space provided. Maximum length of 600 characters. No 26 Are you also applying to an announcement(s) on behalf of the NIST SURF Program in other location(s)? The 2026 SURF program will host participants in Gaithersburg, MD, and Boulder, CO. Each location has its own vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required Yes 26.1 Which NIST SURF location is your first choice? Gaithersburg, MD Boulder, CO No 27 I understand that this application applies only to the NIST SURF Gaithersburg vacancy announcement, and is not an application for the SURF program in other locations. Answer to this question is required Yes No 28 If invited to participate in the NIST Gaithersburg, MD in-person SURF program, I acknowledge that I must bring the mandated identification with me for entry to NIST on the first day of the program per the Visitor's Center Policy (https://www.nist.gov/about-nist/visit/campus-access-and-security). Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 29 I understand that I may need to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) if I work&nbsp; on a project related to the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) and Science Act. &nbsp; Answer to this question is required Yes No 30 If I accept an offer to participate in the NIST SURF program, I acknowledge my commitment to participate. I further acknowledge that if I withdraw after committing to the program, I jeopardize consideration for future SURF fellowships. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 31 I understand a complete application submission includes two (2) letters of recommendation submitted by the recommendation due date (NLT than 3 days after the closing of the vacancy). Furthermore, I acknowledge I am responsible for notifying references through the online application system to submit letters on my behalf. Note: NIST will not accept hard copy letters or letters sent as e-mail attachments. The system will notify your recommenders of the request, provide instructions for submission and send a reminder 2 days prior to the deadline. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 32 I understand that I must upload an acceptable form of proof of my U.S. citizenship or permanent residency. &nbsp;Acceptable forms of proof of U.S. Citizenship include a Certified Birth Certificate, U.S. Passport, U.S. Passport Card, Naturalization Certificate, Certificate of Citizenship, Consular Report of Birth (of U.S. citizen) Abroad, or Certification of Birth. Acceptable form of proof of U.S. permanent residency is an unexpired green card. I understand that driver&rsquo;s licenses and social security cards are NOT acceptable forms of proof of U.S. citizenship or permanent residency. Answer to this question is required Yes No 33 I confirm that I have checked the list of required documents. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 34 I confirm that the information provided in this application and supporting documents are true, complete, and accurate. If false information is in my application, consideration for a fellowship will be removed. Answer to this question is required Agree Disagree 35 How did you hear about the SURF program? Answer to this question is required Received an email from a school department Saw a SURF flyer, brochure or advertisement at my school College professor or advisor Current NIST employee SURF alumni Family member or friend Online search (general) Career fair or professional conference Other 36 If you selected &ldquo;Other&rdquo; please enter the way you heard about the SURF Program. Please enter NA if you did not select &ldquo;Other". Maximum length of 250 characters. Answer to this question is required View Vacancy Details Agency Financial Report Comment Policy Commerce Archive EEO Policy FOIA GobiernoUSA.gov Improper Payments Information Quality Inspector General No Fear Act PLAIN Language Privacy Policy USA.gov Whistleblower Protection Whitehouse.gov This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).