Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 14 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 Ability to plan, manage and administer exhibitions and educational programs, including multi-media and interactive exhibits in a library, educational, or cultural institution.** Planned, managed and administered a national and international program for providing exhibitions and related educational materials to varied audiences such as scholars, schools, Members of Congress, libraries, and the general public. This included responsibility for the administration, planning, budget development, funding and execution of exhibits and educational materials, including multimedia and interactive exhibits. Answer to this question is required Led a team that performed the full range of duties in the administration of PERIODIC, HIGHLY COMPLEX exhibitions and/or educational programs for a library or other educational or cultural institution, including ALL OF THE ABOVE responsibilities. Member of a leadership team that performed the full range of duties in the administration of ONE (1) OR MORE HIGHLY COMPLEX exhibition and/or educational programs for a library or other educational or cultural institution, including ALL OF THE ABOVE responsibilities. Member of a leadership team that performed the full range of duties in the administration of ONE HIGHLY COMPLEX exhibition and/or educational program for a library or other educational or cultural institution, including SOME OF THE ABOVE responsibilities. None of the above. 3 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 4 Knowledge of contract preparation and contractor monitoring policies and procedures.** Worked as a contract officer representative (COR), monitoring, evaluating, and overseeing contract activities performing the following activities: 1) coordinating contract administration activities for technical service contracts; 2) overseeing technical evaluations of work performed by contractors in the installation and/or maintenance of hardware and software products; 3) initiating revisions to meet changing program requirements; 4) drafting statements of work; 5) collaborating with vendors and end users to ensure contract requirements are met and activities are performed in compliance with the terms of the contract; and 6) reviewing the work product of contract personnel, including accepting, amending or rejecting their work. Answer to this question is required Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing ALL of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above. Worked as a contract officer representative (COR) monitoring, evaluating and overseeing contract activities, performing THREE (3) of the above. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Knowledge of electronic interpretive media sufficient to develop and administer both interactive and multimedia components of a major exhibition program. Has knowledge of the theories, concepts, principles, and practices of interpretive media to plan and manage national and international exhibition programs and is recognized as a leader or expert in the field. This includes knowledge of the trends and developments and the critical role of technology in exhibits. Answer to this question is required Recognized as an authority in the field of interpretive media. Developed and administered the design, production and installation of interactive exhibits in a library, educational or cultural institution. Performed the full range of duties associated with the development of an interactive exhibit with NATIONAL impact. Recognized as a professional resource in the field of interpretive media. Developed and administered the design, production and installation of interactive exhibits in a library, educational or cultural institution. Recognized as a professional resource in the field of interpretive media. Administered the design, production and installation of exhibits in a library, educational or cultural institution. None of the above. 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to supervise and manage a diverse workforce. Supervised and managed a diverse workforce including: 1) establishing realistic yet challenging goals and standards; 2) supplying regular, constructive feedback, mentoring to assist staff in attaining their goals; 3) incorporating active participation of staff in planning, decision making and team building; 4) identifying skills and abilities of staff and any skill gaps in the workforce for current and future needs; 5) providing opportunities for training and career advancement; 6) hiring staff; 7) addressing performance and disciplinary matters; 8) communicating performance expectations; 9) conducting timely and periodic performance evaluations; 10) ensuring tasks are appropriately delegated and satisfactorily completed; and 11) creating and embracing an environment fostering diversity, integrity, and honesty focused on ongoing improvement to self and others and to customer service. Answer to this question is required WORKING AS AN ASSISTANT CHIEF or equivalent position, responsible for supervising and managing a diverse workforce exercising final authority for the full range of ALL OF THE ABOVE supervisory personnel management duties. Direct reports included SUBORDINATE MANAGERS. Supervised, and managed a diverse workforce, exercising authority for SIX (6) of the above supervisory personnel management duties. Direct reports included SOME SUBORDINATE MANAGERS. Supervised, and managed a diverse workforce, exercising authority for FOUR (4) of the above supervisory personnel management duties. Direct reports included SOME SUBORDINATE MANAGERS. None of the above. 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to build coalitions or professional networks. Built and maintained professional networks and relationships with a wide variety of individuals, professional organizations, or other organizations to enhance the effectiveness of an agency, company, or cultural institution. This includes: 1) participating in professional association meetings as a representative of the institution, 2) effective collaboration with other departments, agencies, and/or organizations to enhance the organization's goals and objectives, and 3) establishing effective relationships with donors, e.g. (foundations, corporations, individuals) and potential donors to obtain funding. Answer to this question is required Built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders inside and outside the organization in order to develop and implement national strategies and priorities for a significant program or institution. Coalitions involved high-ranking officials, partner organizations, senior managers, co-workers, and professional colleagues in academia, government, and industry. Built and maintained coalitions with individuals and organizations, including stakeholders inside and outside the organization in order to develop and implement national strategies and priorities for a significant program or institution. Coalitions involved senior management, co-workers, and professional colleagues in academia, government, and industry. Built and maintained relationships with stakeholders representing multiple units within an agency or organization in order to develop and implement national strategies and priorities for a significant program or institution. Networks involved managers, co-workers, and professional colleagues within the agency or organization. None of the above. 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to communicate in writing. Prepared a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, well-organized, and understandable complex and specialized documents related to the work of the position, such as: 1) exhibition publications and materials, 2) policies, 3) program goals and objectives, 4) business plans, 5) budget justifications, 6) evaluations, 7) white papers, 8) performance management documents, and 9) reports. This includes the ability to target an audience and shape communications so that they are appropriate and specific to technical and administrative activities. Answer to this question is required As the principal author AND final authority, independently wrote SEVEN (7) or EIGHT (8) of the above types of documents, including 1) through 4). These documents were used to communicate, change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant or controversial organization-wide issues. As the principal author or collaborator, independently wrote FIVE (5) or SIX (6) of the above types of documents, including 1) through 4). These documents were used to communicate, change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant or controversial organization-wide issues. As the principal author or collaborator, independently wrote documents 1) through 4) above. These documents were used to communicate, change, justify, defend, negotiate, or settle matters involving significant or controversial organization-wide issues. None of the above. 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 8000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).