Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Ability to perform quality control inspections of digital and physical braille materials.** Interpreted and coordinated standards for the production of electronic and embossed braille books and periodicals by performing the following activities: 1) performed evaluations of the quality of items manufactured using production methods such as automated braille transcription, direct braille input, optical character recognition, and production from eBook files; 2) conducted routine audits of embossed and electronic braille control copies to ensure proper conformance with braille codes, proper technical specification and format; 3) conducted routine analyses of the merits of braille material produced on new systems and documented results; 4) reccomended certification of the quality acceptability of braille materials; and 5) completed routine and recurring descriptions of illustrations with an understanding of the style, subject and reading level of the surrounding material. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely performed ALL of the above. Independently and routinely performed THREE (3) or FOUR (4) of the above. Independently and routinely performed TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above 2 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Ability to evaluate quality assurance processes and procedures.** Evaluated quality assurance processes and procedures and performed the following: 1) administered programs to evaluate the precision and accuracy of incoming materials; 2) applied standard methods and procedures for inspection, testing, and the evaluation of braille materials; 3) participated in inspections and directed efforts to achieve the quality standards set forth by the organization/agency; 4) identified problem areas and recommended solutions; 5) coordinated with personnel to onboard new braille producers and evaluated existing producers; and 6) participated in tests on newly developed braille products and communicates results to appropriate personnel. Answer to this question is required Independently evaluated quality assurance processes and procedures and performed ALL SIX (6) of the above. Independently evaluated quality assurance processes and procedures and performed FOUR (4) of the above. Independently evaluated quality assurance processes and procedures and performed TWO (2) of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to communicate effectively in writing. Prepared written materials related to the position such as: 1) administrative reports, 2) correspondence, 3) standard operating procedures, 4) specifications, and 5) instructive materials and articles. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, wrote ALL OF THE ABOVE documents. As a primary job responsibility, wrote FOUR (4) OF THE ABOVE documents. As a primary job responsibility, wrote AT LEAST TWO (2) OF THE ABOVE documents. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of braille and systems that create braille reading materials. Applied knowledge of the highly technical nature of braille and systems that create braille reading materials and technologies used to develop that system. This includes: 1) recommending solutions to technical issues of braille production and braille codes; 2) working with network libraries and other stakeholders on projects designed to improve blind and print disabled individuals&rsquo; braille access to other library collections and/or access through technological devices; and 3) making suggestions for improvement of the braille system in partnership with stakeholders. Answer to this question is required Independently performed ALL of the above activities. Independently performed TWO (2) of the above activities. With minimal supervision, performed TWO (2) of the above activities. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: 11 1 Ability to perform quality control inspections of digital and physical braille materials.** Interpreted and coordinated standards for the production of electronic and embossed braille books and periodicals by performing the following activities: 1) evaluated the quality of items manufactured using automated braille transcription, direct braille input, optical character recognition, and production from eBook files, 2) audited embossed and electronic braille control copies to ensure proper conformance with braille codes, proper technical specification and format, 3) analyzed and prepared reports on the merits of braille material produced on new systems; 4) certified the quality acceptability of braille materials, 5) served as quality assurance monitor for various contracts with commercial companies, network libraries and multistate centers, and 6) participated in the development of plans for computer software quality programs that are well-defined and require limited resources. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely performed ALL of the above. Independently and routinely performed FIVE (5) of the above. Independently and routinely performed THREE (3) of the above. None of the Above. 2 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 3 Ability to evaluate quality assurance processes and procedures.** Evaluated quality assurance processes and procedures by performing the following: 1) administered programs to evaluate the precision and accuracy of incoming materials; 2) applied methods and procedures for inspection, testing, and evaluation of braille materials and recommend changes as needed; 3) recommended acceptance or rejection of contractors&rsquo; submissions; 4) conducted onsite inspections and advises on improvements necessary to meet the standards and specifications for braille material; 5) evaluated and promoted quality and reliability training activities; 6) performed inspections of common problems using established methodology to evaluate braille products; 7) Coordinated onboarding and ongoing evaluation of braille producers; and 8) performed tests on newly developed braille products and communicated results to appropriate personnel. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, developed, evaluated, and coordinated quality assurance program activities and performed AT LEAST SEVEN (7) of the above. Independently planned, developed, evaluated, and coordinated quality assurance program activities and performed SIX (6) or FIVE (5) of the above. Independently planned, developed, evaluated, and coordinated quality assurance program activities and performed FOUR (4) of the above. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to monitor quality control operations.** Monitored, maintained and improved quality assurance processes and in doing so, performed the following: 1) reviewed quality assurance test procedures to assure adequacy for the intended purpose; 2) used working knowledge of established quality assurance operating procedures and standards to assure all test procedures and associated quality control records were maintained in accord with approved methods; 3) handled problems in real time involving problems with non-conformance, test execution, performance, or equipment; 4) developed and implemented time saving workarounds; 5) verified test plans, facilities and test article configuration control records and participated in test readiness review; and 6) monitored test performance. Answer to this question is required Independently and routinely performed ALL of the above to monitor quality control operations. Independently and routinely performed FIVE (5) of the above to monitor quality control operations. Independently and routinely performed FOUR (4) of the above to monitor quality control operations. None of the Above. 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Knowledge of braille and systems that create braille reading materials. Applied knowledge of the highly technical nature of braille and systems that create braille reading materials and technologies used to develop that system. This includes: 1) recommending solutions to technical issues of braille production and braille codes; 2) working with network libraries and other stakeholders on projects designed to improve blind and print disabled individuals&rsquo; braille access to other library collections and/or access through technological devices; and 3) making suggestions for improvement of the braille system in partnership with stakeholders. Answer to this question is required Independently performed ALL of the above activities. Independently performed TWO (2) of the above activities. With minimal supervision, performed TWO (2) of the above activities. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to communicate effectively in writing and present information orally. Prepared written materials related to the position such as: 1) administrative reports, 2) correspondence, 3) manuals, 4) specifications, and 5) instructive materials and articles. Represents agency at conferences of organizations, committees, and agencies concerned with the development and utilization of quality assurance procedures for digital and physical materials. Advised others on matters affecting quality assurance. Answer to this question is required As a primary job responsibility, wrote ALL OF THE ABOVE documents and prepared presentations and briefings. Presentations often required spontaneous responses to questions without the ability to obtain additional information or support. As a primary job responsibility, wrote FOUR (4) OF THE ABOVE documents and prepared presentations and briefings. Presentations often required spontaneous responses to questions without the ability to obtain additional information or support. As a primary job responsibility, wrote AT LEAST TWO (2) OF THE ABOVE documents and occasionally delivered prepared presentations. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 4 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).