Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 11 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experiences/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service. I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Choose the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the basic education requirements of the position. Answer to this question is required I have a degree from an accredited college or university in illustrative design, commercial art, fine arts, industrial design, architecture, drafting, interior design, or other fields related to the position. I have advanced training in a vocational school, technical institute, or art institute above the high school level in one of the fields listed above. I have specialized experience required for the position. This includes work in the appropriate field, e.g., design, modelmaking, art, taxidermy, or restoration. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above. 3 Which of the following settings have you designed museum exhibitions (including physical space, cases, furnishings and graphics)? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Commercial contemporary art gallery. Sculpture garden or park. Modern and contemporary art museum. Exhibition and design firm. Fine arts museum. Other types of museums. I have no experience designing museum exhibitions. 4 Which of the following types of exhibits do you have experience working on as a designer or contributing member of a design team? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Art exhibits (paintings, photography, prints and drawing, sculpture, etc.). Site specific art work/installations. Large scale, indoor/outdoor sculpture. Exhibits in two of the categories above. Exhibits in three of the categories above. None of the above. 5 Which of the following roles have you worked directly with in the process of developing and executing an exhibition design? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Structural engineer. Electrical engineer. Mechanical engineer. Construction manager. Conservator. Curator. Graphic designer. Art handlers or installers. Procurement officer. Registrar. Audio visual technician. Building engineer. None of the above. 6 Which of the following statements best describe your highest level of experience designing exhibits? Answer to this question is required I served as a senior designer and/or led a design team in managing the design and production of an exhibit. I served as a senior designer to deliver a complete design concept and documentation. I served as a member on a design team to deliver one or more elements of a design package. Under close supervision, I assisted senior staff with designing exhibitions and completing design projects. I do not have experience performing this task. 7 Which of the following types of construction drawings do you have experience preparing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Scaled space plan Scaled reflected ceiling plan Scaled elevations Scaled sections Scaled details Complete set of construction documents for bid, construction, or fabrication, following national CAD or architectural drawing standards Fabrication drawings and/or details Electrical plans and/or details Materials & equipment specifications None of the above 8 Which of the following software programs have you used to produce complete drawings for construction or fabrication for exhibitions or to manage projects? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required BIM software such as Vectorworks or Revit Vectorworks Revit 2D drafting software such as AutoCAD AutoCAD 3D design software such as Rhinocerous 3D or SketchUp SketchUp Rhinocerous 3D Solid Works None of the above 9 Which of the following best describe your training and experience in creating construction and fabrication documents? Answer to this question is required I have completed formal education or training in detailing and drafting but have not yet performed this task on the job for a year. I am self-trained and have prepared construction/fabrication documents using the program. I have formal training in Vectorworks or AutoCAD and have experience detailing and producing construction/fabrication documents using the program, on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with established procedures. I have formal training in Vectorworks or AutoCAD and have experience detailing and producing construction/fabrication documents using the program, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. Architectural design, detailing, drafting and rendering has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. I have not had education, training or experience in detailing or drafting. 10 Which of the following objects do you have experience, (museum or related setting) designing physical space and exhibit furnishings for? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Paintings (water color, oil, acrylic) Drawings, prints and works on paper Photography Mixed media art objects Electronic or new Media objects Ceramics Glass Metalwork Sculpture Jewelry Furniture Textiles Decorative Arts Historic artifacts Extremely small or extremely large objects Other types of museum collections None of the above 11 Which of the following demonstrate your experience preparing drawings, files and construction documents using computer-aided software? (Select all that apply.) Answer to this question is required Scaled architectural plan of spaces and/or buildings Scaled reflected ceiling, lighting or electrical plans Scaled sectional views of spaces and/or buildings Fabrication details such as joinery, millwork, sectional views of components Print-ready graphic files for large format printers Materials specifications such as sheet goods, finishes Equipment specifications CADCAM ready 3D vector production files As-builts of spaces and components None of the above 12 Have you reviewed and/or edited CAD drawing submissions for compliance with organizational/national CAD standards? Answer to this question is required Yes No 13 Which of the following statements best describe your experience managing exhibition design and production schedules? Answer to this question is required I have met design or production schedules set by others. I have participated with others in setting design and production schedules. I have established designed and production schedules for individual exhibitions. I have established design and production schedules for multiple, overlapping exhibitions or similar multi-year, multi-part design and construction projects. None of the above. 14 Which of the following reflects your experience in project management? (Check all that apply.) Answer to this question is required I have led the planning, organization, and execution of projects with multiple components. I have developed and monitored complex project schedules with multiple, simultaneous workflows and deliverables. I have developed and monitored project budgets. I have been responsible for project procurement. I have resolved conflicts and differences among project/team members. I have managed projects and/or teams with staff from outside organizations. I have written reports for management review and approval. None of the above. 15 Which of the following object safety issues and controls have you considered or used in designing exhibitions? (check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Light sensitivity Temperature control Humidity control Motion detectors Security alarms None of the above 16 Which of the following items have you prepared for an exhibition design? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Conceptual drawings Circulation plans Architectural drawings such as building plans, elevations, sections, and details Casework or furniture design Mill work Specifications, including finishes, fixtures, and equipment Lighting design None of the above 17 What is your experience with coordinating construction or fabrication efforts for an exhibition and monitoring onsite progress? Answer to this question is required I have participated in onsite meetings to monitor construction or fabrication progress with a manager or senior team member. I have helped coordinate or lead onsite meetings to monitor construction or fabrication progress with another team member(s) and have participated in the review of shop drawings. I have independently attended onsite meetings to monitor construction or fabrication progress and reviewed or approved shop drawings, requests for information (RFIs), and submittals. I have independently attended or managed onsite meetings to monitor construction or fabrication progress and served as the main point of contact for requests for information (RFIs), submittal, and shop drawing review and approval. I do not have experience coordinating construction or fabrication efforts for an exhibition and/or monitoring onsite progress. 18 Which of the following tasks have you performed to organize and coordinate information and processes? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have maintained office records. I have maintained multiple calendars. I have prioritized work tasks. I have managed multiple and concurrent project deadlines. I have coordinated projects involving multiple tasks or details. I have created project notebooks (including 3-dimensional or other non-standard items) I have maintained digital files according to an established file structure and naming convention. I have created digital file architecture. I have created digital file naming conventions. I have monitored schedule or tasks using project management software such as Smartsheet or Procore. I have created and maintained project schedules and information using project management software such as Smartsheet or Procore. None of the above. 19 Which of the following administrative software(s) are you proficient with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Microsoft Office Suite, including Excel Microsoft Teams Dropbox SmartSheet Sharepoint Adobe Acrobat Adobe Acrobat Other None of the above 20 Which of the following best describes your experience planning, scheduling and coordinating exhibit projects? Answer to this question is required I have experience independently developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for major capital projects, coordinating multiple staff and contractors on major capital exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. I have experience, with supervisor support developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for complex exhibit projects, coordinating multiple staff and contractors on complex exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. I have experience independently developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for simple exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. I have experience, with supervisor support, developing exhibition design, fabrication and installation schedules for simple exhibit projects, shepherding exhibit projects through the approval and revision processes and coordinating the delivery and installation of exhibit elements. None of the above. 21 Which of the following procurement and/or contracting functions have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have conducted market surveys to determine available goods, vendors and pricing for a project I have developed or reviewed statements of work. I have developed or reviewed specifications for use in solicitations for goods or services. I have prepared or reviewed Requests for Quotations (RFQs) or Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to obtain vendor proposals and pricing. I have participated in technical evaluation of vendor submissions to determine the most cost-effective proposal. I have participated in technical evaluation of vendor submissions to determine the 'best value' proposal. I have monitored performance and compliance with terms and conditions of purchases orders. I have served as a Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR), monitoring performance and compliance with terms and conditions of contracts. I have NOT performed these job functions. 22 Which of the following best describes your experience preparing scopes of work for requests for quotes (RFQs) and requests for proposals (RFPs) and develops specifications for products and supplies in accordance with organizational policies and practices?&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have experience preparing scopes of work for requests for quotes (RFQs) and requests for proposals (RFPs) and develops specifications for products and supplies in accordance with organizational policies and practices. I have experience preparing scopes of work for requests for quotes (RFQs) and requests for proposals (RFPs) and develops specifications for products and supplies. I have experience preparing scopes of work for requests for quotes (RFQs) and requests for proposals (RFPs). I have experience preparing scopes of work for requests for quotes (RFQs). I do not have related experience. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.