Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 10 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Do you have the ability to do the work of a Mason without more than normal supervision? Related experience includes completing bricklaying as required to repair existing masonry, cutting and splitting of bricks and blocks; completing installation of interior tile work for floors and walls; completing application of many types of adhesives, concrete, mortars, and grouts; reading and following blueprints, plans, drawings, and specifications; using of a wide array of power tools and equipment common to masonry and carpentry trades. Your experience must be detailed in your resume to receive credit. Answer to this question is required Yes 1.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 2 Have you independently planned the installation or repair of masonry work? Answer to this question is required Yes 2.1 Please list where you gained this experience and provide a brief description of the tasks performed. Please make certain that this information is reflected in your resume. Maximum length of 1000 characters. No 3 Interprets blueprints, work instructions, and technical guides to ensure precise execution of projects. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 4 Executes tasks independently with minimal supervision to complete assignments effectively. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 5 Performs skilled tasks like bricklaying, sealing, and waterproofing to restore historic and modern buildings and ensure structural integrity. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 6 Measures, frames, places, and finishes concrete while drilling and cutting to repair structures like floors and sidewalks for precise repairs. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 7 &nbsp; Which of the following type(s) of materials have you used when performing masonry work: Answer to this question is required Sandstone Marble Granite Limestone Terrazzo None of the above 8 Select the tasks you performed that demonstrated your use of materials in performing masonry work. Answer to this question is required Mixed mortar to match existing mortar and finish mortar joints so that the repaired portion matches the undamaged portion of the structure. Determined the amount of ingredients needed for mixing mortar and concrete to achieve desired consistency. Used mortar dye or other coloring methods to achieve desired finish. Matched existing historic surfaces. None of the above 9 Select the tasks that describe your experience in applying techniques and procedures when building structures of brick, block, and stone. Answer to this question is required Matching stone Repairing stone work Applying decorative finishes and details Cutting and shaping brick to complete corners Laying brick and block Setting stone on walls and partitions Cutting openings in walls Repointing with mortar and caulking compound Cutting, shaping, and finishing stone None of the above 10 Which response best describes your highest level of experience repairing or installing stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete? Answer to this question is required I do not have experience repairing or installing stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have set up the materials and equipment needed to repair or install installing stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have assisted others with the repair or installation of stones, bricks, or concrete, receiving hands-on supervision. I have independently repaired or installed stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have independently planned and laid out the installation of stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete. I have independently planned and laid out the installation of stones, bricks, tiles, or concrete on high visibility projects (e.g., historical buildings, design focal points). 11 Moved stone and other materials safety using a variety of methods including Wheelbarrows (powered and unpowered), hand (carrying/rolling), rigging (high lines and straight pulls). Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 12 Applies occupational health and safety regulations to daily tasks. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 13 Mixes and applies adhesives, concrete, mortars, and grouts precisely to ensure effective repairs. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 14 Measures and alters wall layouts by demolishing, rebuilding, and applying finishes to meet new design specifications accurately. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 15 Operates various power tools and equipment to complete masonry and carpentry tasks efficiently. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 16 Follows health and safety regulations, including Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) guidelines, to ensure safe work practices. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 17 Cuts and shapes bricks to perform spot repairs on building features like windows, doors, and columns for precise restoration. Answer to this question is required I know little or nothing about this. I have studied or trained in this. I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised. I have used my knowledge and ability on my own, under normal supervision. I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs. 18 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.