Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position (Be prepared to submit a transcript on request for proof of education): Answer to this question is required I have successfully completed the requirements for a master's or equivalent degree in or directly related to the duties of this position. I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in or directly related to the duties of the position. I have an LL.B. or J.D., in or related to the position. I have 1 year of specialized experience at or at least equivalent to the Grade 7 level in the Federal service which is in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position. I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. I do NOT meet the requirements as described. 2 Which of the following funds management duties have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Tracking income and expenditures for funds Entering financial transactions into an automated tracking system Reconciling financial reports Ensuring accurate financial communication with program managers Ensuring that expenditures do not exceed authorizations in accounts Determining and verifying financial and other codes to be used based on transaction, source, purpose and program. Compiling and extracting information used to prepare internal reports Preparing and tracking forms for billing, receiving, disbursing and/or transferring funds I have education and/or training in funds management, but I do not have experience performing these duties I do not have experience, education or training in funds management 3 Which of the following best describes your experience compiling and presenting financial data in support of your organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience searching, compiling and analyzing historical, statistical and narrative information to determine policy impacts on existing human resources and budgetary operations and prepare summary statements on reports/findings. I have experience compiling, consolidating, analyzing and synthesizing diverse programs and administrative support requirements into a unified financial plan, considering needs and cost trends of payroll, travel, supplies, training, and related personnel and materials used to support technical programs. I have experience providing budget analysis and advice. I have experience analyzing financial reports to assure funds are properly allocated, obligated, and spent in conformance with program objectives. I have experience researching, compiling, and summarizing data concerning personnel salaries, expenses, or similar object class and line item information. I have experience reviewing program data, work load reports and staffing requests to assure that all positions are properly funded and that acceptable average grade and staffing levels are maintained. I have experience analyzing and monitoring personnel ceilings. I have experience directing compilation of funding data and cost information for program reviews. I have experience performing analyses of obligation and performance data to evaluate trends. I have experience determining compliance with accounting and auditing requirements. I have no experience performing this task. 4 Which of the following describe your experience in the performance of procurement activities? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have prepared requisitions for office supplies, maintenance and equipment. I have tracked invoices and work orders on contracts. I have ordered a variety of goods and services requiring a range of support transactions. I have knowledge of Federal procurement regulations/procedures. I have researched product options, availability and pricing. I have prepared bid/quote summaries. I have used a Corporate Credit Card Purchasing program. I do not have any experience as described in the choices above. 5 Which of the following describes your experience, education or training in communicating effectively with management and staff, and other business professionals in writing? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have assisted in writing simple reports or out-going correspondence. I have assisted in writing clear and effective correspondence, reports and other written materials for a specialized audience or for wide distribution. I have assisted in preparing correspondence within my organization using standard formats. I have written college research/term papers. I have assisted in writing complex reports, office-wide memoranda, and recommendations to the supervisor or higher management for changes in the content of draft reports written by others. I have assisted in writing drafts of office-wide reports and in making recommendations to supervisor or higher management regarding changes in style of draft reports written by others. I have assisted in developing written materials for briefings, meetings, or conferences. I have assisted in writing papers that provide the pros and cons of decisions to be made by upper management. I have assisted in training others in written communication. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 6 Which of the following statements describe your ability to communicate orally? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required On behalf of my supervisor/manager, I have assisted in orally presenting ideas and decisions to office staff. I have assisted in contacting other organizational personnel in order to resolve, obtain, and provide information. I have assisted in preparing and exchanging information that was routine in nature (the communication involved little or no interaction with the audience). I have assisted in communicating with a variety of individuals which may involve explanation of involved procedures. I have assisted in communicating administrative information to internal audiences. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 7 Which of the following best describes your interaction with customers via online tools, such as helpdesk support? Answer to this question is required I have monitored and responded to customer inquiries via online tools and effectively answered or routed queries to appropriate subject matter experts for resolution, with little to no supervision. I have monitored and responded to customer inquiries via online tools and effectively answered or routed queries to appropriate subject matter experts for resolution with assistance or guidance from peers or a supervisor. I have developed help desk tools or correspondence for use by other individuals to expedite or streamline responsiveness to customers. I have technical experience in online resources and can easily adapt to online tools that support customer service queries. I have had education or training in performing these tasks but have not yet performed it on the job. I have not had education, training or experience in performing these tasks. 8 Which of the following describes your ability to support training assistance. Answer to this question is required I have experience providing assistance in class registrations, training scheduling and training records management. I have set up training classrooms and assisted in training facilitation in a hybrid environment (in-person and online training). I have experience in logistical operations of classroom setup to include distribution of training materials, taking attendance, and approving student training registrations in a learning Management System. I have reviewed and updated training guides, plans and procedures. I have provided training guidance and assisted in directing students to resources for appropriate training or provided alternative training sources. I have not performed any of the tasks above. 9 Which of the following best describes your experience, education, or training in maintaining schedule for conference and meeting rooms? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training in maintaining a schedule for conference and meeting rooms. I have completed formal education or training in maintaining a schedule for conference and meeting rooms. I have maintained a schedule for conference and meeting rooms on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with established correct procedures. I have maintained schedule for conference and meeting rooms as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have maintained schedule for conference and meeting rooms as a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task, and/or others have consulted me for assistance in performing this task. 10 Choose the statements that describe your experience related to all phases of the acquisition cycle. Check all that apply: Answer to this question is required Scope of the work development. Scope of work review. Developing cost proposals. Processes involved in acquisition planning. Processes involved in procuring contracts. Evaluation of requests for proposals. Contract administration. Cost and price analysis. None of the above. 11 Which of the following best describes your ability to provide contracting assistance? Answer to this question is required I have compiled requests for quotes or proposals. I have worked in contracting databases to update or maintain information about contract awards, contract amendments and modifications, and other contracting documentation. I have completed contracting assistance tasks such as entering and updating contract information, generating monthly reports, and following up with a supervisor on open items. I have provided assistance on a helpdesk by acknowledging receipt of assignments, updating assignment status, communicating with staff or clients regarding document requests and closing out assignments when completed. I have assembled, analyzed, and summarized information from contracting files and prepared administrative files according to filing and disposition policy and procedure. None of the above 12 Which of the following budget execution activities have you performed in support of your organization? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided guidance on obligations incurred, expenditures and availability of funds. I have provided guidance on appropriation law and/or budget policy. I have transferred funds between organizations and/or descriptive classes, such as object classes and/or line items in budget. I have verified that obligations and expenditures are within amounts programmed. I have monitored the execution of program budget according to allocations and guidelines. I have managed and reported budget execution during fiscal year and closeout. I have worked with management in preparation of budgetary documents, narrative and statistical justifications, and supporting statements and exhibits. I have not performed any of the above functions. 13 Which of the following Human Resources activities have you performed? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have provided counsel and support on Human Resources management requirements. I have initiated personnel actions and related payroll functions as required. I have utilized knowledge and judgment in advising on the application of the principles and techniques of recruitment, selection, and placement (including merit promotion). I have reviewed and evaluated from an internal management and fiscal point-of-view, and proposed personnel actions including appointments, promotions, awards, and training. I have prepared personnel documents for hiring, reassignment, promotion, performance evaluation, and employee recognition. I have assisted supervisors in structuring and describing positions. I have assisted supervisors in writing performance standards. I have reviewed completed position descriptions for proper format and uniformity. I have not performed any of the above functions. 14 Which of the following describes your experience performing or overseeing the processing of personnel actions, maintenance of records, and related functions including advising departmental management on all aspects of personnel? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Making recommendations relating to various personnel actions. Advising department heads on personnel management issues and problems. Maintaining continuous communications with HR representative in the areas of recruiting, promotion, training, EEO, disciplinary actions and performance plans and evaluations. Providing position management advice and recommendations to managers. Functioning as a team leader including responsibility as the primary organizational or project representative. None of the above. 15 Which of the following Human Resources (HR) services and/or functions have you provided? Answer to this question is required Position development Recruitment and placement Employee relations Labor relations Outsourcing advice and assistance Benefits counseling Compensation None of the above 16 Which of the following best describes your experience providing overall administrative management for an organization including interpreting administrative policies, developing and implementing local policies, defining administrative requirements, and/or providing advice to top management on related issues? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience serving as the expert on administrative policies and requirements for an organization. I have experience coordinates the establishment of goals, objectives, and long-range plans for the administrative support I have experience evaluating and monitoring administrative activities and making substantive recommendations for program improvements. I have experience ensures effective use of office staff and recommends needed changes to enhance central support services. I have experience assisting operating managers in implementing actions designed to improve administrative operations or resources. None of the above 17 Which of the following best describes your experience providing overall administrative management for an organization including developing and improving administrative process? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have identified and tracked hours worked by employees. I have had experience enduring effective use of office staff. I have had experience evaluating and monitoring administrative activities and making substantive recommendations for program improvements. I have had experience coordinating the establishment of goals, objectives, and long-range plans for administrative support. None of the above. 18 Which of the following statements best describes your ability to prioritize and develop work assignments while effectively responding to day-to-day administrative changes? Answer to this question is required I have not had experience, education or training performing this task. I have had education or training in performing these skills, but have not yet performed them on the job. I have performed these skills or components of these tasks on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed these skills as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of these skills and/or I have trained others in performance of these skills and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 19 Which of the following best describes your experience with a government purchase card? Answer to this question is required I have gained basic knowledge of government purchase card principles, practices, and processes through classroom training. I have worked with a government purchase card holder to process a purchase request. I have been a government purchase card holder for less than 5 years. I have been a government purchase card holder for over 5 years. None of the above. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.