Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 08 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Ability to perform metadata services in a library setting.** Demonstrated experience in performing metadata services in a library setting. In doing so: 1) performed copy cataloging within an automated environment, cataloging for a variety of materials and formats; 2) searched entries in automated and manual catalogs; 3) selected and assigned classification numbers; 4) verified controlled vocabularies and metadata schema; 5) performed database maintenance, including updating bibliographic records; and 6) performed quality control and resolved discrepancies within the cataloging process. Answer to this question is required Under supervision, performed metadata services and tasks in a professional, public, or academic library setting. Previous experience included ALL of the above duties and tasks. Under supervision, performed metadata services and tasks in a professional, public, or academic library setting. Previous experience included FOUR (4) or FIVE (5) of the above duties and tasks. Under supervision, performed metadata services and tasks in a professional, public, or academic library setting. Previous experience included TWO (2) or THREE (3) of the above duties and tasks. None of the Above. 4 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 5 Ability to utilize information technology and online systems.** Utilized information technology and online systems to create bibliographic records that meet current local and/or national standards, to provide access to library collections, perform bibliographic research, and increase the efficiency of the work. Systems and resources used included: (1) integrated library systems (e.g., Voyager, ALMA, Folio); (2) bibliographic utilities (e.g., OCLC); (3) online catalog tools (e.g., ClassWeb); (4) word processing, spreadsheets, and document management software (e.g., MS Word, Excel, Adobe); (5) email, collaboration, and scheduling software (e.g., Outlook, Teams); and (6) Internet search engines and databases. Answer to this question is required As a library professional, used ALL OF THE ABOVE to perform cataloging activities. Used computer applications to improve workflow and bibliographic control. As a library professional, used AT LEAST FIVE (5) OF THE ABOVE in performing cataloging activities. As a library professional, used FOUR (4) OF THE ABOVE in performing cataloging activities. None of the Above 6 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 7 Ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work.** Demonstrated ability to plan, prioritize, organize and execute work assignments in a timely manner. Answer to this question is required Independently planned, prioritized, organized, and completed work assignments for self and workgroup, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, required input and resources, and schedules established and met deadlines and milestones. With minimal supervision, planned, organized, and completed work assignments, including identifying work objectives, specific project steps, and required input and resources, and meeting deadlines and milestones. Completed work assignments primarily planned by supervisor. Identified work objectives and followed well established procedures meeting critical deadlines. None of the Above. 8 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 9 Ability to interact collaboratively with others. Provided assistance, developed and maintained effective work relationships, interacted collaboratively on projects, and exchanged information with persons inside and outside an organization or work unit, including a variety of stakeholders (e.g., supervisors, colleagues, and/or trainees, among others) to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. Answer to this question is required Independently collaborated with persons inside and/or outside an organization to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. With assistance, collaborated with persons inside and/or outside an organization to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. Under close supervision, collaborated with persons inside and/or outside an organization to bring an issue to a satisfactory resolution. None of the Above. 10 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 11 Ability to provide training . Provided training related to cataloging and creating metadata. In doing so performed the following activities: 1) prepared instructional guides, documentation and other training resources, 2) conducted formal/informal training, and 3) assisted in updating existing training materials to reflect new developments and modifications in policies and processes. Answer to this question is required Provided training and performed ALL of the activities listed above. Provided explanations and examples of the correct methods for addressing a variety of situations. Provided training and performed TWO (2) of the activities listed above. Provided explanations and examples of the correct methods for addressing a variety of situations. Provided training and performed ONE (1) of the activities listed above. Provided explanations and examples of the correct methods for addressing a variety of situations. None of the Above. 12 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 13 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Academic Journal Congressional Referral Diversity Jobs HACE HACU Hispanic Pro Hispanic Bar Associaton LATPRO Library of Congress Staff Member LinkedIn Newspaper Personal Reference (non - Library of Congress Staff Member) USAJOBS 14 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Merit Selection Plan Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).