Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 GS-09: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B or J.D. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least 1 one full year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Please select the answer below that best describes your experience with interpreting complex legislation and regulatory policy guidance (e.g., Prompt Pay, FAR, OMB) to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. Answer to this question is required I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations. I have reviewed complex legislation and regulatory guidance to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impact to management. I have reviewed proposed and enacted legislation to determine the impact on an organization`s operations and provided advice on their impact to management, and been assigned responsibility for developing policy to implement. I do not have experience at performing this task. 5 Of the following, indicate the statutes, authorities, policies and/or procedures with which you have experience? Answer to this question is required Department of State Authorization Act Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) President's Management Agenda Prompt Pay Act Program specific legislation, such as the Patriot Act Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM)/ Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH) International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) policies and procedures A-76 and competitive sourcing Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) Omnibus Security Act of 1985 Public Law 99-399 None of the above 6 Which of the following best reflects your level and experience performing program and management analysis? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use different qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze programs and/or management processes. I work with others to develop recommendations or conclusions about specific program and/or management situations and issues. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a variety of analytical methods to assess and evaluate programs and/or management practices. I typically work independently to complete this analysis and provide recommendations and/or solutions addressing programmatic and management concerns. I have work experience conducting complex analysis of high visibility programs and/or management practices. I apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others. None of the above. 7 Which of the following statements BEST describe your experience in analyzing guidelines, policies, and procedures for the management of records throughout their life cycle? Answer to this question is required I have independently performed this task as a regular part of my job and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior colleague. I have performed this task on the job under the supervision of a supervisor or senior colleague. I have education and/or training that demonstrates my analytical skills, but I have not performed this task. I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I am experienced at performing this task and lead and/or train others. 8 With which of the following project / program management techniques do you have education, training or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones ISO 9000 Six Sigma Kempner-Tregoe None of the above 9 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required I routinely work with management officials to resolve records management or information resource issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I routinely work with internal managers to resolve records management or information resource issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised policies, procedures and processes and discussing alternatives. I routinely advise or participate in meetings with groups or individuals to address records management issues or problems. This includes developing a rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. I explain records management policies, procedures and processes to office staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance. I explain records management policies, procedures and processes to external staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 10 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required I have experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I have experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing creditability to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background on the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above 11 At what level have you planned, developed, and implemented program management activities? Answer to this question is required I have trained or assisted others in the performance of this task due to my expertise in this area. I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed it independently and usually without assistance from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior coworker to ensure compliance with proper procedures. I have education, training, or experience in performing this task, but have not yet applied it on the Job. I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. 12 With which of the following program management techniques do you have education or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones None of the above 13 Which of the following sources have you used to conduct research? Answer to this question is required Internet Electronic databases Periodicals Books Regulatory / statutory materials Interviews Multi-media Original sources Surveys None of the above Grade: 11 1 GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position. Before answering this question, see the qualifications section on this announcement. Answer to this question is required I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. (if related), from an accredited college or university. This education demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position to be filled. I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Of the following, indicate the statutes, authorities, policies and/or procedures with which you have experience? Answer to this question is required Department of State Authorization Act Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) President's Management Agenda Prompt Pay Act Program specific legislation, such as the Patriot Act Foreign Affairs Manual (FAM)/ Foreign Affairs Handbook (FAH) International Cooperative Administrative Support Services (ICASS) policies and procedures A-76 and competitive sourcing Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) Omnibus Security Act of 1985 Public Law 99-399 None of the above 5 What type of analyses have you performed as part of your professional work experience? Answer to this question is required Articulated the important points of the material and draw conclusions. Reviewed various source material and identify inconsistencies. Identified the relationships between specific points and larger concepts. Used quantitative methods. Used qualitative methods. Identified relationships between points, issues, or events. Inferred possible outcomes derived from given information. None of the above. 6 With which of the following project / program management techniques do you have education, training or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones ISO 9000 Six Sigma Kempner-Tregoe None of the above 7 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. 8 Select one description that BEST represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals: Answer to this question is required I routinely work with management officials to resolve records management or information resource issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. I routinely work with internal managers to resolve records management or information resource issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised policies, procedures and processes and discussing alternatives. I routinely advise or participate in meetings with groups or individuals to address records management issues or problems. This includes developing a rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. I explain records management policies, procedures and processes to office staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance. I explain records management policies, procedures and processes to external staff and provide background information or the rationale for decisions, using persuasive techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above. 9 Which of the following sources have you used to conduct research? Answer to this question is required Internet Electronic databases Periodicals Books Regulatory / statutory materials Interviews Multi-media Original sources Surveys None of the above 10 With which of the following program management techniques do you have education or experience? Answer to this question is required Performance, Evaluation, and Review Techniques (PERT) Management by Objectives (MBO) Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) Strategic planning Budgeting Benchmarking Process management Developing milestones None of the above 11 Do you have prior experience in working for or coordinating projects / programs with any of the following organizations? Answer to this question is required Project and Contracting Office (PCO) Defense Contract Management Office (DCMA) United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Department of Defense (DOD) Department of State (DOS) General Services Administration (GSA) Smart Buy None of the above 12 From the following list, identify those types of written products you have prepared: Answer to this question is required Audit reports Audit proposals Audited Financial Statements Audit responses Performance and Accountability Reports Policy documents Congressional testimony Answers to congressional inquiries Waiver requests Training / instructional aids Procedures and guidelines Official correspondence Journal articles or published manuscripts Research reports Financial System Enhancement Requests Financial Statement footnotes Responses to OIG, GAO reports / inquiries None of the above 13 I have knowledge of the following Federal regulations and guidelines: Answer to this question is required Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 45, Part 74 and 95 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars A-21, A-87, and A-122 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars A-11, A-123, A-127, A-129, A-134, and A-136 HHS Grants Administration Manual / Grant Policy Directives Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) Standard Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) Treasury Financial Regulations Other financial laws and regulations None of the above Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.