Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Architect of the Capitol About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Toggle navigation About the AOC Working at the AOC Contact Us Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience in three or more of the following five items: (1) Acting as an expert in two or more of the following areas: design, operation, maintenance, and administration of Industrial Control Systems (ICS); (2) Assisting in the development of control logic and/or graphics of an ICS during installation of new system, or modifying control logic and/or graphics of existing ICS control to accommodate changes to the plant instrumentation and equipment; (3) Updating firmware or system software on all components in an ICS; (4) Performing routine system backups or performing a system restoration from a backup of an ICS; and (5) Communicating complex technical requirements and alternatives to non-technical personnel, including end users and senior management. Grade: 11 1 Applicants must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience in four or more of the following five items: (1) Acting as an expert in two or more of the following areas: design, operation, maintenance, and administration of Industrial Control Systems (ICS); (2) Assisting in the development of control logic and/or graphics of an ICS during installation of new system, or modifying control logic and/or graphics of existing ICS control to accommodate changes to the plant instrumentation and equipment; (3) Updating firmware or system software on all components in an ICS; (4) Performing routine system backups or performing a system restoration from a backup of an ICS; and (5) Communicating complex technical requirements and alternatives to non-technical personnel, including end users and senior management. Grade: 12 1 Applicants must possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in order to minimally qualify for this position. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement below? Answer to this question is required Yes No Specialized experience is defined as experience in all five of the items: (1) Acting as an expert in two or more of the following areas: design, operation, maintenance, and administration of Industrial Control Systems (ICS); (2) Assisting in the development of control logic and/or graphics of an ICS during installation of new system, or modifying control logic and/or graphics of existing ICS control to accommodate changes to the plant instrumentation and equipment; (3) Updating firmware or system software on all components in an ICS; (4) Performing routine system backups or performing a system restoration from a backup of an ICS; and (5) Communicating complex technical requirements and alternatives to non-technical personnel, including end users and senior management. Grade: All Grades 1 Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience&nbsp;working with an ICS that generated steam, chilled water, or power. Answer to this question is required I do not have related training or experience. I have training, but I have no experience directly related to the operation, maintenance, and administration of ICS. I have no formal training, but I do have experience related to the operation, maintenance, and administration of ICS. I have both formal training and direct work experience related to the operation, maintenance, and administration of ICS that does not involve the generation of steam, chilled water, or electricity. I have both formal training and direct work experience related to the operation, maintenance, and administration of ICS that controls the generation of steam, chilled water, or electricity. 2 Select&nbsp;the statement that best describes your experience in analyzing/monitoring ICS operations, troubleshooting, and solving problems regarding an ICS. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing any of these tasks. I have had limited experience analyzing and monitoring ICS operations with oversight but no experience with troubleshooting and solving problems related to the ICS. I have experience in analyzing and monitoring ICS operations independently, and have assisted in troubleshooting and solving problems related to the ICS. I have experience in analyzing/monitoring ICS operations and, troubleshooting, and solving problems regarding an ICS. I typically perform these tasks independently and occasionally seek assistance and/or guidance from others. I have experience in analyzing/monitoring ICS operations and, troubleshooting, and solving problems regarding an ICS. I typically perform these tasks independently and rarely seek assistance and/or guidance from others. Others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in troubleshooting and solving problems regarding an ICS. 3 Which&nbsp;of the following&nbsp;do you have experience maintaining an ICS (Industrial Control System)? Answer to this question is required I have experience using P&ID Schematics or logic diagrams to troubleshoot ICS operations. I have experience working with IT staff to implement suggested security strategies such as updating virus definition updates or updating firmware. I have experience with the installation and configuration of major hardware (servers, controllers, PLCs). I have experience with performing backups, restoration, reorganization, and recovery work of an ICS system. I have experience with configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining an ICS history. None of the above 4 Do you&nbsp;have experience writing control logic or developing graphics for an ICS? Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 Have&nbsp;you obtained a Contracting Officer`s Technical Representative (COTR), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), or equivalent certification in the past three years? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select all items from the following list that you have utilized on major projects Answer to this question is required Diagrams Blue Prints Schematics Handbooks Manuals None of the above 7 Which interpersonal skills have you routinely applied in a work setting? Answer to this question is required Facilitating the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties. Providing direction, guidance, or instruction to operations and/or maintenance staff. Persuading and/or inspiring others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques. Promoting the organization's goals, mission and values. Developing trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds. None of the above 8 With which individuals have you spoken while maintaining a professional, friendly demeanor? Answer to this question is required High-level leaders within your agency/organization Professional engineers Contracting Officers Safety officers/Environmental Engineers Tradesperson/Operators None of the above 9 Where did you learn about this Architect of the Capitol job opportunity? Answer to this question is required Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Website USAJOBS Website Washington Post Ad AOC Employee (former or current) Friend or Relative Job Fair, Conference or Convention Job Bulletin Board Public Notice or Service Announcement Radio/Television Broadcast/Magazine Ads Employment Office (Federal, State, or Local) Government Recruitment at School Email recruitment communication Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) LinkedIn Glassdoor Indeed Other None of the above View Vacancy Details For assistance, please contact the AOC Employment Center at 202.226.7000. AOC.gov VisitTheCapitol.gov USBG.gov Privacy Statement This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001). Architect of the Capitol &nbsp;|&nbsp; Stewards of the iconic buildings and grounds of Capitol Hill since 1793.