Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Library of Congress Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 06 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated and or verified through reference checks. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). Answer to this question is required I have read and understand this information and attest that, to the best of my knowledge, the information I have provided is true and complete. I have read and understand this information and do not wish to continue the application process. 2 A resume is required for each application submission. On the following Documents page, you will be prompted to upload your resume into the "Resume" slot. Failure to include this document with your application will render the application ineligible for any review. Please note: there is no page restriction to your resume and you are allowed to submit a document longer than two pages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I understand that I am required to submit a resume with my application and that failure to do so will render my application ineligible for review. 3 Do you posses a valid state motor vehicle operator's license from state of residence? Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 Knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures. ** Applied knowledge of materials handling and warehouse procedures by having properly arranged materials, freight and supplies in a large scale warehouse environment such as receiving and storage.&nbsp; This includes experience in material handling such as 1) processing,&nbsp; 2) receiving; 3) storing; 4) shipping (loading box and flatbed trailers of at least 48&rsquo;); and 5) inventory. Answer to this question is required Has extensive materials handling experience including ALL of the above with library-related materials such as furniture, equipment, supplies and publications utilized by the Library. Retrieved and stored palletized freight/cargo in a high bay (minimum 30’) Distribution or Logistics Center. In performing functions, loaded and unloaded trailers and flatbeds and used handheld scanning equipment. Can read Purchase Orders, Bills of Lading, and other shipping documentation for shipment accuracy. Has material handling experience including FOUR (4) of the above with library-related materials such as furniture, equipment, supplies and publications utilized by the Library. Retrieved and stored palletized freight/cargo in a high bay (minimum 30’) Distribution or Logistics Center. In performing functions, loaded and unloaded trailers and flatbeds and used handheld scanning equipment. Can read Purchase Orders, Bills of Lading, and other shipping documentation for shipment accuracy. Has material handling experience including at least THREE (3) of the above with non-library-related materials. Retrieved and stored palletized freight/cargo in a high bay Distribution or Logistics Center. In performing functions, loaded and unloaded trailers and flatbeds and used handheld scanning equipment. Can read Purchase Orders, Bills of Lading, and other shipping documentation for shipment accuracy. None of the above. 5 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 6 Skill in operating and maintaining materials handling and warehouse-related equipment and vehicles with safety and dexterity.** Operated and maintained large materials handling equipment including 1) sit-down forklift; 2) stand-up forklift; 3) ride-on pallet jack; 4) electric pallet jack; and 5) manual pallet jack in order to load, unload, move, transfer and transport goods, boxes, materials and supplies.&nbsp; Used power tools and manual tools to erect and dismantle furniture and equipment. Performed routine maintenance and detected equipment malfunctions. Answer to this question is required Licensed on when applicable, operated and performed routine maintenance on ALL of the above equipment/tool items. Independently used forklifts and other warehouse-related equipment and tools to perform a wide range of materials handling duties. Completed daily safety checklist on equipment. Demonstrated reliable performance in terms of the speed and quality of work. No derogatory information with respect to safety records. Has knowledge of and uses personal protective equipment (PPE) daily. Licensed on when applicable, operated and performed routine maintenance on FOUR (4) of the above equipment/tool items. Used forklifts and other related equipment and tools to perform materials handling duties.Completed daily safety checklist on equipment. Under minimal Supervision, safely operated and maintained large materials handling equipment (forklifts, pallet jacks, etc.) Demonstrated reliable performance in terms of the speed and quality of work. No derogatory information with respect to safety records. Has knowledge of and uses personal protective equipment (PPE) daily. Licensed on when applicable, operated and performed routine maintenance on THREE (3) of the above equipment/tool items. Completed daily safety checklist on equipment. Operated and maintained materials handling equipment safely, including, but not limited to forklifts and pallet jacks. Used warehouse-related equipment for general materials processing, handling, and storage tasks. No derogatory information with respect to safety records. Has knowledge of and uses personal protective equipment (PPE) daily. None of the Above 7 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 8 Ability to interact with others. Worked collaboratively with a variety of individuals to coordinate processing, handling, and storing of materials and equipment in a supply or warehouse facility. Answer to this question is required Worked collaboratively with persons inside and outside the organization to discuss processing, handling, and/or storing of materials and/or equipment in a supply or warehouse facility and to ensure materials handling matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Worked collaboratively primarily with staff within an organization to discuss processing, handling, and/or storing of materials and/or equipment in a supply or warehouse facility and to ensure materials handling matters were addressed and deadlines and requirements were met. Worked collaboratively with colleagues and peers internal to the workgroup or division regarding processing, handling, and/or storing of materials and/or equipment in a supply or warehouse facility. None of the Above 9 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 10 Ability to utilize computer technology in performing warehouse management work. Utilized data capture technology to track the receipt, storage and movement of materials to intermediate storage locations or to final dispersal.&nbsp; Software and peripherals included: 1) warehouse management systems, 2) word-processing (e.g., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect), 3) database management (e.g., Access), 4) electronic spreadsheets (e.g., Excel), 5) barcode scanners, and 6) electronic mail (emails). Answer to this question is required Utilized ALL of the above software and equipment to generate working documents and forms related to duties. Entered and maintained inventory and generated work orders in a warehouse management system. Provided advice and assistance on applying advanced software functions. Utilized FIVE (5) of the above software and equipment to generate working documents and forms related to duties. Entered and maintained inventory in a warehouse management system. Provided some advice and assistance on applying software functions. Utilized FOUR (4) of the above in a warehouse setting. Entered and maintained inventory in a warehouse management system. None of the Above 11 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 12 Ability to interpret instructions, specifications, etc. (other than blueprints). Followed instructions and safety regulations established by an organization and relayed information about methods for processing, handling, and storing of materials and equipment through a warehouse supply facility. Interpreted floor plans and diagrams for placement and installation of carpet, furniture and other equipment. Answer to this question is required Independently followed the full range of guidelines and instructions established by an organization, such as applicable safety regulations and other regulatory requirements. Followed special handling instructions for a full range of warehouse functions in receiving, unloading, storing, shipping, processing and maintaining all equipment and supplies in a warehouse or supply facility. Interpreted guidelines and instructions for others or instructed others in appropriate regulatory requirements. Independently followed the full range of guidelines and instructions established by an organization, such as applicable safety regulations and other regulatory requirements. Followed special handling instructions for a full range of warehouse functions in receiving, unloading, storing, shipping, processing and maintaining all equipment and supplies in a warehouse or supply facility. Independently or with minimal supervision followed the full range of guidelines and instructions established by an organization, such as applicable safety regulations and other regulatory requirements. Followed special handling instructions for a range of warehouse functions in a warehouse or supply facility. None of the Above 13 In the box below, provide a description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your response to the previous question. Do not paste your resume here or state SEE RESUME. Failure to provide a narrative for any KSA statement will result in disqualification of your application from further consideration. Maximum length of 10000 characters. Answer to this question is required 14 How did you hear about this job opening? (You may select multiple responses.) Answer to this question is required Congressional Referral Academic Journal Newspaper LATPRO Diversity Jobs HACE USAJOBS Personal Reference Other 15 If you have heard about this position from another source other than those listed above, please indicate the source. Maximum length of 50 characters. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to jobhelp@loc.gov Library of Congress About the Library Careers at the Library Frequently Asked Questions This is a Federal job application system. Providing false information, creating fake IDs, or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, for disbarment from Federal employment, or for dismissal after the applicant begins work. Falsifying a Federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others, or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (US Code, Title 18, section 1001).