Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 12 Note: If you are qualifying based on education, you WILL BE required to submit transcripts as verification of educational requirement by the closing date of this announcement. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information you submit is insufficient to verify your eligibility, you WILL lose consideration for this position. The following questions will determine if you possess the basic requirements to qualify for this position. 1 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university in international law, international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities. I have a bachelor's or graduate degree from an accredited college or university that included a combination of courses, with at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; OR 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines AND 12 semester hours in statistics / quantitative methods. I have a combination of education and experience where my coursework was equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, (as shown above), PLUS appropriate relevant experience or additional education. I have completed at least 4 years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs. (NOTE: qualifying work experience may have been gained through residence, study, teaching, business or commercial activities, military service, newspaper work, military or civil government activities, missionary or international relief work, or other experience in foreign countries.) My education and/or experience does not match any of the above choices. 2 GS-12 Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position: Answer to this question is required In addition to meeting one of the basic entry qualifications requirements listed above, I have at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service. My experience does not match the choice above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 3 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No 4 I understand that to qualify for this position based on education, I must submit a copy of my transcripts to receive consideration. However, if selected for this position, I will be required to provide official documentation prior to being appointed. (Please follow the instructions in the vacancy announcement). Answer to this question is required Yes No 5 From the list, select the budget task that you have performed. (Select all that apply) Answer to this question is required Reviewed budget estimates Developed budget plans Analyzed obligations and expenditures Ensured budget compliance with statutory and administrative regulations and standards Conducted budget evaluation and recommended alternative procedures to reduce unnecessary expense None of the above 6 Which of the following best describes your highest level of work experience managing financial resources? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in financial management techniques. However I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have one or more years of full time experience in the budgeting and/or planning process. I have work experience that demonstrates the ability to handle complex budgeting / planning issues. I rely on superiors before providing guidance on program or policy decisions. I have advanced level work experience that demonstrates the ability to handle complex financial issues. I typically apply highly developed analytical skills in order to provide direction to senior managers on planning / budgeting / financial issues. None of the above. 7 Which of the following describes your highest degree of knowledge of current international events and key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government? Answer to this question is required I have minimal education, training, or knowledge of current international events and key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government. I have education, training or knowledge related to current international events and key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government, but have not yet applied it on the job. I have knowledge of, and work experience related to, current international events and key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government as a regular part of a job under supervision by a senior employee. I have significant knowledge of, and work experience related to, current international events and key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government that I routinely carry out with minimal supervision. I am highly knowledgeable and experienced about current international events and key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government and others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. I have no education, training, or knowledge of current international events or key foreign policy objectives of the U.S. government. 8 Which of the following BEST describes your experience managing International Visitor, International Educational, or other professional exchange programs, activities, and resources? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but I have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 9 Which of the following BEST describes your highest level of work experience in planning and managing project / program budgets? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in financial management techniques. However, I have not yet applied this knowledge in work situations. I have assisted others with planning and/or managing project / program budgets. I have experience independently resolving routine budgeting issues. I rely on superiors before providing guidance on complex budget issues. I have experience independently resolving complex budget issues. I provided direction to senior managers on budget planning and/or management budgeting issues. None of the above. 10 Which of the following choices best describes your level of experience in project development and execution? Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee. I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by supervisor or senior employees. I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in the activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance. 11 Which of the following choices BEST describes your level and experience evaluating project proposals? Answer to this question is required I have no experience evaluating project proposals. I have less than one year of experience evaluating project proposals. I have at least one year of experience evaluating project proposals. I have at least one year of experience participating in the evaluation of project proposals. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. 12 Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience in interacting with various groups and individuals. Answer to this question is required Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships. Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise on a daily basis. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives. Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties. Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies, and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance. None of the above apply. 13 Please select the option that most closely reflects your experience in representing a division or organization at meetings, conferences, and events. Answer to this question is required I have no experience in performing this work behavior. I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level. I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance. I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations. I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations. 14 Select the statement that BEST describes your experience developing briefings for senior management officials including analyses, conclusions, and recommendations: Answer to this question is required I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task. I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed it on the job. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee. This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have trained others in the performance of this task and / or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 15 Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience using qualitative or quantitative methods to analyze, assess, and improve program effectiveness? Answer to this question is required I have formal training or education in various qualitative and quantitative analytical methods. However, I have not yet applied this ability in work situations. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to use a range of qualitative and quantitative methods to analyze and evaluate programs. I typically work with a supervisor or someone else to conduct analyses, and develop conclusions or recommendations based on analysis. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to independently conduct program analyses and make recommendations. I have experience applying these analytical skills to a variety of projects and programs and presenting conclusions and recommendations to others. I have work experience demonstrating the ability to conduct complex program and project analysis and developing corresponding recommendations. I routinely apply these highly developed analytical skills to provide direction to others and present these recommendations to senior management leadership. None of the above. Grade: All Grades No questions specified. View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.