Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades The information provided in your application materials must be truthful and complete. Giving incomplete or false information on any submitted document may be grounds for not hiring you or for terminating you after you begin work. 1 To qualify for the GS-09 level, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level defined as: performing administrative, operational, or project management work in an art museum or similar arts and culture organization related to exhibition planning, collections management, registration, cataloging, or research, or other arts administration experience relevant to the position to be filled. Answer to this question is required Yes No 2 Which of the following best describes your experience with art exhibition organization. Answer to this question is required I have limited experience with art exhibition organization in a museum or other cultural organization. I have a moderate amount of experience with art exhibition organization in a museum or other cultural organization. I have extensive experience with art exhibition organization in a museum or other cultural organization. I have no experience with art exhibition organization in a museum or other cultural organization. 3 Which of the following best describes your familiarity with practices related to the loan of works of art. Answer to this question is required I have independently managed art loan documentation for a museum or other arts organization I have under close supervision managed art loan documentation for a museum or other arts organization I have worked as part of a team to manage art loan documentation for a museum or other arts organization I have supported a position that manages art loans for a museum or other arts organization I have no experience with art loans 4 Which of the following best describes your experience involving art related databases. Answer to this question is required I have created and maintained art related databases I have independently created and maintained art related databases for use in exhibition organization. I have under close supervision created and maintained art related databases for use in exhibition organization. I have worked as part of a team to create and maintain art related databases for use in exhibition organization. I have no experience creating and maintaining art related databases. 5 My educational or professional background has given me general knowledge of European and American art and familiarity with art history research practices. Answer to this question is required True False 6 Select the statement(s) that most accurately describe your experience with correspondence. Answer to this question is required I have prepared (formatted and printed) correspondence for final management approval. I have reviewed correspondence for accuracy, clarity, completeness and consistency with regulations and procedures, as well as made edits and rewrites, when necessary. I have drafted and edited correspondence. I have reviewed and processed incoming/outgoing correspondence for the signature of senior personnel making sure of proper clearances and approvals of other offices. None of these statements accurately describes my experience. 7 Do you have experience preparing fine arts loan agreements/contracts (formatting/printing). Answer to this question is required Yes No 8 Do you have experience reviewing fine arts loan agreements/conditions of loan and documenting requirements. Answer to this question is required Yes No 9 Which of the following best describes your experience providing administrative support for museum operations in an art museum through effective management of office functions and regular interaction with people inside and outside the museum.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task. I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job. I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task. 10 I have proficiency in using the following kinds of software applications. Proficiency means I can use them on a regular basis, without assistance, to accomplish my work. Answer to this question is required Word processing (e.g., Word) Spreadsheets (e.g., Excel) Databases (e.g., collection or records management) Presentation software (e.g., PowerPoint) Project planning software (e.g., Wrike, Asana) Research tools (e.g., online libraries, auction data) AI tools (e.g., ChatGPT) Collaborative platforms (e.g., Teams, Sharepoint) Other kinds of applications not listed here None of the above 11 Choose the statement(s) that accurately describes your familiarity with one or more foreign languages.&nbsp; Answer to this question is required I am able to understand Spanish in written form. I am able to understand Italian in written form. I am able to understand German in written form. I am able to understand French in written form. I am able to understand another foreign language in written form. I am unable to understand any foreign language in written form. 12 Which of the following statements best describe your experience working collaboratively on a team. Answer to this question is required I have limited experience working collaboratively on a team to accomplish work projects. I have a moderate amount of experience working collaboratively on a team to accomplish work projects. I have extensive experience working collaboratively on a team to accomplish work projects. I have no experience working collaboratively on a team to accomplish work projects. 13 Which best describes your experience with Project Management methodologies. Answer to this question is required I have independently performed project management I have participated as a team performing project management I have provided support for a project manager I am familiar with project management methodologies but have not performed project management on the job I have not performed project management 14 I have a Certified Project Management Professional (PMP) certification from the Project Management Institute (PMI) Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.