Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION U.S. Department Of State DIPLOMACY IN ACTION Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Toggle navigation Career Paths Internships / Fellowships Benefits About Apply Now Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 13 GS-13: Applicants must meet the basic qualification requirements that follow to qualify for this position. Carefully read all possible answers before selecting a response. Choose the one answer that best describes your IT related experience and specialized experience and indicate your response below: (See the Qualifications Section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.) A.) I have IT-related experience demonstrating EACH of the four competencies AND specialized experience listed below and as described in the vacancy announcement: 1. Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; 2. Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; 3. Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; 4. Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations; AND I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service. B.) I do not meet any of the requirements described above. NOTE: Experience MUST be IT related; the experience may be demonstrated by paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training (for example, IT certification), as appropriate. 1 GS-13: Based on your review of the basic qualification requirements listed above, choose the corresponding letter that best describes your education or experience. Answer to this question is required A B - I do not meet any of the requirements described above. Please note that ALL applicants must submit a resume online and complete the entire application process to be considered for this position. Ensure that your resume, which is the basis for determining if you qualify for this position, thoroughly supports your responses to the below job specific assessment questions and that it contains the names, titles, beginning and ending dates of employment (month/year), and names and phone numbers of your current and/or previous supervisor(s). Your resume must contain the information outlined in the Applying for a Federal Job pamphlet (OF-510) http://careers.state.gov/forms/of0510.pdf 2 I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume. I further understand that my resume must be detailed and highlight my most relevant and significant work experience (to include starting and ending dates of employment for each position held) and education (if applicable) as it relates to this job opportunity. My failure to do so will result in me being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required Yes No Grade: All Grades 1 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of, and experience with requirements analysis and development? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, the requirements analysis process. I have knowledge, education or training in the requirements analysis process, but no experience. I have performed requirements analysis tasks as directed by the project lead on a systems development project. I have lead the requirements analysis phase on an IT project. I have lead the requirements analysis phase on an enterprise IT project across multiple stakeholder groups. I have lead multiple requirements analysis phases for concurrent systems development projects across multiple stakeholder groups. 2 Which of the following choices BEST describes your knowledge of, and experience with, Information Technology requirements gathering, analysis and verification? Answer to this question is required I have independently participated in multiple requirements analysis phases for concurrent projects with multiple stakeholder groups. I have education or training in methodologies used to perform requirements analysis. However, I have not yet applied these skills on the job. I have independently participated in requirements gathering, analysis and verification on individual projects with more than one stakeholder group. I have performed requirements gathering, analysis and verification tasks under the direction of a supervisor or more senior personnel. I have no education, training or experience with requirements gathering, analysis or verification processes. 3 Please select all in which you have demonstrated your ability to think critically: Answer to this question is required Developed a strategic plan. Developed tactical plans derived from a strategic plan. Project Management. Determined objectives to improve processes. Budget preparation. Set priorities in order to deliver results. Developed performance measurements. Identified workforce needs. Examined policy issues with a long-term perspective. Prioritized to meet deadlines. None of the above. 4 Which of the following choices best describes your knowledge of, and experience performing systems testing? Answer to this question is required I have no knowledge of, or experience with, systems testing I have knowledge of, or education in, systems testing but no experience I have assisted in the implementation of a systems test plan I was responsible for implementing part (e.g., stress, regression, unit testing) of a comprehensive test plan I designed and implemented a full scope test plan including stress, regression, unit testing 5 Which of the following BEST describes your experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents? Answer to this question is required I have no experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents under direct supervision. I have managed government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents independently. I have experience in managing government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents and have written policy for this process. I have managed and supervised a team that worked on government-wide recommendations for remediating cybersecurity incidents. 6 Which of the following choices best describes your experience organizing and prioritizing projects? Answer to this question is required I have developed priorities, project schedules, and maintained deadlines for team projects. I have gathered requirements for a project, organized them logically, and determined their level of importance to the completion of the project. I have juggled multiple tasks keeping in mind the importance of each task. I have not organized or prioritized projects. 7 From the following list, please indicate the cyber related topics in which you have experience: Answer to this question is required Permissible and unacceptable conduct in cyberspace Application of deterrence strategies to conduct in cyberspace Application of principles governing armed conflict to conduct in cyberspace Offensive and defensive technical capabilities Culture and politics of specific countries developing cyber capabilities None of the above 8 Please indicate all the areas that you have experience related to Cyber Security operational tasks: Answer to this question is required Physical and Logical Network Segmentation Multi-Factor Authentication Network Configuration & Monitoring (signature & heuristics based) Zero Client Architectures Cloud Computing Security Security Operations Center design and management Mobile Device Security Dynamic System Defenses Data-At-Rest & Data-In Transit Protections Data Centric Security Micro Hypervisor Technologies Applications Whitelisting None of the above 9 Which of the following choices BEST describes your experience with the analysis of technology hardware and software solutions that meet the business needs of an organization? Answer to this question is required I have no experience analyzing business needs for technology hardware or software solutions. I have training or education in analyzing business needs for technology hardware and software solutions, but have no work experience in this area. I have performed individual tasks related to analyzing business needs for technology hardware and software solutions under the direction of a supervisor or senior employee. I have assisted with the overall analysis of technology hardware and software solutions for a project. I have led an analysis project related to business needs for technology hardware and software. 10 I have communicated technical information to the following audiences: Answer to this question is required Senior officials Colleagues Academia Government organizations Private industry General public Technical experts Professional organizations None of the above 11 Which of the following choices best describes your highest level of experience in communicating persuasively. Answer to this question is required I have persuaded team members or subordinates to work toward an objective or goal I have persuaded senior officials to take action or make a decision of considerable importance to the organization`s mission I have made formal presentations to officials inside or outside my employing organization for purposes of persuading them to take action None of the above 12 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied? Answer to this question is required Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal. Identify common interests. None of the above. The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. 13 How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 14 In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 15 How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 16 How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Maximum length of 1200 characters. 17 I certify that the above responses are my own words, and I did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]). True False View Vacancy Details Questions, Comments, or Feedback can be directed to fedhirehelp@applygovernment.com Home Privacy Policy USAJOBS Accessibility Statement Site Map Quizzes Recruitment Events Contact Us The Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, manages this site as a portal for information from the U.S. State Department. External links to other Internet sites should not be construed as an endorsement of the views or privacy policies contained therein.