Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 00 No questions specified. Grade: All Grades 1 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No Applicants must address the following mandatory qualifications&nbsp;separate from their resumes. Statements must provide specific examples that address relevant experience, accomplishments and evidence that you possess demonstrated superior technical qualifications.&nbsp; You will not be considered for this position if you fail to submit qualification statements specifically addressing each mandatory technical qualification requirement. MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS (MTQs): Address each of the following MTQ's separately.&nbsp; MTQ&nbsp;Statements must provide specific examples that address relevant experience, accomplishments and evidence that you possess demonstrated superior technical and senior professional qualifications. Please note that the MTQs must be addressed individually and in narrative form. (Please see 'Required Documentation' section for more information)&nbsp; 2 The Museum Curator Series, 1015, has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR), which must be met for this position in addition to the minimum qualification requirement. From the options below, select the one response which describes your educational or experience background. Education above the high school level must have been completed in a U.S. college, university, or other educational institution that has been accredited by one of the accrediting agencies or associations recognized by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education. Answer to this question is required I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in museum work; or in an applicable subject-matter field. I have appropriate combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major as shown 1. above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. I possess four years of experience that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study as shown in 1. above. I do not have the basic experience for the position. Please note that the MTQs must be addressed individually and in narrative form. ( Maximum of 2 pages per MTQ) : MTQ. Demonstrated experience and knowledge of art historical scholarly research methods. Please note that the MTQs must be addressed individually and in narrative form. ( Maximum of 2 pages per MTQ) : MTQ. Demonstrated knowledge and experience with the curation of artifacts and/or archival materials, experience in budget and staff management, strategic planning, and project management of collaborative and complex curatorial projects and initiatives. Demonstrated knowledge and experience collaborating with non-curatorial staff in exhibit design which may include visual information specialists, educators, interpreters, exhibit technicians, or exhibit specialists; managing a museum program that includes historic artifacts, textiles, documents, photographs, or historic objects; overseeing development and installation of exhibits, strategic planning and prioritizing of content and creation. View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.