Seeker - Vacancy - Questions Preview Skip to main content Smithsonian Smithsonian About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Toggle navigation About Us Working at the Smithsonian Job Opportunities Job Seekers with Disabilities Benefits Information Print Vacancy Details View Eligibility Questions View Vacancy Questions Print Vacancy Vacancy Questions Preview Grade: 09 1 Choose the one statement that best describes your experience/education as it relates to this position. Answer to this question is required I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service related to the work of this position. I have qualifying education as described in the vacancy announcement. I have a qualifying combination of experience and education as described in the vacancy announcement. I do not have the experience or education described above. 2 Which of the following best describes your experience working with curators and the Head Registrar in developing long-range exhibition schedules, taking into consideration special conservation problems, short-term storage, and shipping and packing requirements? Answer to this question is required I have experience working with curators and the Head Registrar in developing long-range exhibition schedules, taking into consideration special conservation problems, short-term storage, and shipping and packing requirements. I have experience working with curators and the Head Registrar in developing long-range exhibition schedules, taking into consideration special conservation problems, and short-term storage. I have experience working with curators and the Head Registrar in developing long-range exhibition schedules and taking into consideration special conservation problems. I have experience working with curators and the Head Registrar in developing long-range exhibition schedules. I do not have related experience. 3 Which of the following best characterizes your previous experience working with accessioned collections in a museum or gallery environment? Answer to this question is required I have one year or more experience working in a registration or collections management department in a museum or gallery. I have 6-12 months experience working in a registration or collections management department in a museum or gallery. I have completed graduate level work with a focus on registration or collections management and have experience interning in the field. I have no experience working in a registration or collections management department in a museum or gallery. 4 Which of the following describes your experience and work in collections management in applying collections information systems for managing natural history/zoological registration and collections management functions? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required I have experience electronically accessioning and de-accessioning collection specimens. I have experience using a collection information system to record live animal husbandry, behavioral and health data for specific animal specimens. I have experience using a collection information system to record provenance, field data, and other collection data for natural history specimens. I have experience undertaking and reconciled annual specimen inventories of the collections. I have experience using collections information systems to research and identify natural history or live animal specimens. I have experience using collections information systems to research and resolve documentation problems. I have not used a collections information systems. 5 Do you have knowledge of the principles, best practices and processes of registration and collections management of art in a museum or cultural institution? Answer to this question is required Yes No 6 Select the statement below that describes your knowledge of museum or cultural institutions registration methods and collections management practices. Answer to this question is required Expertise in museum or cultural institution registration methods and collections management practices from working a Registrar Department Highly experienced in museum or cultural institution registration methods and collections management practices from working a Registrar Department Basic knowledge in museum or cultural institution registration methods and collections management practices from working a Registrar Department No knowledge of museum or cultural institution registration methods and collection management. 7 Which of the following best describes your experience in record keeping, producing reports, and/or recording collection information of natural history or live animal collections in a museum or zoological (or similar) setting? (check one) Answer to this question is required I have experience in record keeping, documentation, and reports for live animal in an AZA-accredited zoological or aquarium setting. I have experience in record keeping, documentation, and reports for live animal in a zoological or aquarium setting. I have experience in record keeping, documentation, and reports for natural history specimens in an American Alliance of Museums accredited museum. I have experience in record keeping, documentation, and reports for natural history specimens in a museum. None of the above 8 Which of the following functions for managing the loan process do you have experience with? (Check all that apply) Answer to this question is required Managing outgoing loans. Managing incoming loans. Arranging insurance for loans. Preparing and evaluating Facility Reports for loan requests. Requesting specialized permits, for example CITES or ITAR permits . Developing specifications for crates for museum items. Arranging for the international shipment of collections items. Working with contractors specializing in museum support activities related to conservation, packing, or shipping/freight forwarding. None of the above. 9 Which statement best describes your experience working with a digital asset management system? Answer to this question is required I have overseen the use of a museum digital asset management system. I have used a digital asset management system. I have had training in digital asset management systems. I have not used a digital asset management system. Grade: All Grades Due to the high volume of applications received for Smithsonian vacancies, we are unable to confirm receipt of online application packages including faxed documentation and may not be able to respond to your inquiry on the status of your application. After you complete the online application process, you will receive an automated email message as proof of receipt of application. You may view the status of any faxed supporting documentation by following the steps in the "How to Apply" section of the announcement. We appreciate your patience, as the staffing process to identify highly qualified candidates may take up to four weeks or more to complete. After the announcement closes and application reviews are done, you may be contacted by the hiring office if further evaluation or interviews are required. You will receive an e-mail notification on the final status of the vacancy. 1 Select the response that best reflects how you learned about this position. Answer to this question is required Individual referral (friend, relative, Smithsonian employee, school counselor, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Job fair or informational session 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Social networking site (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, or other) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Other online source (USAJobs, Smithsonian website, Internet employment search) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Community or professional organization 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. Mass media (magazine, newspaper, radio, television, poster, telephone job hot line) 1.1 Please indicate the source. Maximum length of 250 characters. 2 Are you a current Smithsonian employee? Answer to this question is required Yes No 3 Have you included the required information (starting and ending dates (month and year), and the hours worked per week), and all other information identified in the required documents section of the job opportunity announcement? Answer to this question is required Yes No View Vacancy Details Smithsonian Institution Office of Human Resources Capital Gallery, Suite 5060 Washington, DC. 20013 Contact Us Privacy Policies & Reports Accessibility Records Request This system is made available by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.