Position Title
IT Specialist (Security)
Agency
Space Development Agency
Announcement Number
SDA-26-12893203-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen-Out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 
 I have one year specialized experience to the next lower broadband or NH-03/GS-13 or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) with advanced encryption concepts, principles, practices, methods, & techniques to provide recommendations/ exercise judgment concerning programs/operations; proposes solutions to leadership to resolve atypical or novel problems, conditions, or issues. Ability to apply full range of cutting edge encryption and COMSEC practices, processes, and techniques. COMSEC experience with experience at a COMSEC Operations Center a plus -- knowledge to build, deploy and manage encryption and COMSEC tools and services. Experience operating as a Controlling or Command Authority. Operational experience with encryption equipment is a plus. Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙