Position Title
Information Systems Specialist (Elementary Instruction)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12902984-MPP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) Civilian Employees

Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. (Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1"); OR

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA). You must submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflecting current DoDEA Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current DoDEA employee as described in one of the categories above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Instructional Systems Specialist (Elementary Instruction) position with Department of Defense Education Activity. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Instructional Systems Specialist (Elementary Instruction) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours appropriate to the work of the position to be filled. The course work included study in at least four of the following five areas: (1) Learning theory, psychology of learning, educational psychology: Study of learning theories as they relate to the systematic design, development, and validation of instructional material; (2) Instructional design practices: Study of the principles an techniques used in designing training programs, developing design strategy and models, and applying design methods to the improvement of instructional effectiveness; (3) Educational evaluation: Study of the techniques for evaluating the effectiveness of instructional/educational programs, including developing written and performance tests and survey instruments, and determining reliability and validity of evaluation instruments; (4) Instructional product development: Study of the techniques appropriate for developing training materials, including identifying learner characteristics, specifying objectives, applying training strategy, validating training materials, and evaluating training; OR (5) Computers in education and training: Study of the application of computers in education and training, including selecting appropriate computer software. (Note: You must attach ALL copies of your OFFICIAL transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Instructional Systems Specialist (Elementary Instruction) at the GS- 13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Developing long-range strategic plans which establish district-wide priorities for elementary education; researching educational deficiencies to implement improvement procedures; designing PK-5 instructional programs and/or resources; developing elementary education policies or technical guidance; coaching facilitators to deliver professional learning to PK-5 teachers, instructional support specialists, or other school leaders; and providing structured guidance to subject matter experts in the planning and development of PK-5 professional learning curriculum. All qualifying experience must have been gained while serving full time in a PK-5 above school level role (e.g., district, state, central office).
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙