Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13021880-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more OR
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, as follows:

• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of discharge; member 4 copy of the DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); AND
• A copy of a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, dated 1991 or later, certifying an OVERALL Service Connected Disability of 30% or more; OR
• DD Form 214, which reflects the character of service of "Retirement-Disability"; OR
• Certification document* which reflects your OVERALL service connected disability of 30% or more.
• The Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference is optional at the time of application.

The "certification" letter is a written document on an official letterhead of the appropriate military branch in which the veteran served, and contains at a minimum, the service member's: (1) military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; (2) expected character of service (i.e. honorable); (3) rank; and (4) type of discharge. The "certification" must be signed by, or by direction of, the adjutant, military personnel officer, or commander of the service member's unit or higher headquarters. The service member's military service dates are necessary in order to determine whether he or she meets the definition of ''veteran'' under 5 U.S.C. 2108(1) (Federal Register, 2016).

Useful Links

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.
You can obtain a copy of your DD-214 from the National Archives.
Standard Form (SF) 15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Veterans Employment
U.S. Department of Labor's Veterans' Preference Advisor

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a 30% or more Disabled Veteran?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


7.
People with Disabilities, Schedule A

You are eligible for this appointing authority if you are an individual:
with an intellectual disability; OR
a severe physical disability; OR
a psychiatric impairment; AND
you have acceptable proof of the disability.
Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility (e.g., records, statements, or other appropriate information) issued by:
a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or,
a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or,
a Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
**Note: An agency may make permanent or time-limited appointments under this appointing authority.

For more information please go to OPM's website on Federal Employment of People with Disabilities.

Are you eligible under a Schedule A, Persons with Disability appointment?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0808 - Architecture
 B. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 C. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 D. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Interdisciplinary position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Architect at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect’s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Interdisciplinary at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1. Planning construction schedules and monitoring project progress against contract plans and specifications. 2. Conducting negotiations and recommendations on contract modifications and change orders. AND 3. Reviewing contractor drawings and payment estimates to ensure engineering matters are acceptable and satisfactory. All experience must be related to civil works and military construction projects.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙