Position Title
IT Specialist
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
CCS-25-SOD-12786788-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 22, 2025 to Aug 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Naperville, IL
 B. Franklin, WI



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or eligibility as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


CTAP Eligibility


1.
Are you a current or former VA employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position equivalent to or below the grade of the position being advertised? Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Experience in supporting and assisting in developing plans for installing, configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining user IT equipment and services; determining current and future use of IT equipment and services, methods of upgrading outdated equipment and services, requirements for new equipment and plans, and coordinates the acquisition of new equipment and services.
 I do not meet the above requirements.



Basic Requirement (IOR): Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a {position title}, GS-2210-{grade}.  

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled. 

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. 

Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. 

Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. 

Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. 

NOTE: The basic requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.



3.
Do you possess the Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?
 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


Assessment 2
This test evaluates situational judgment and job knowledge based on OPM standards. Choose the most appropriate response based on the scenario described.


1.
Do you have experience in monitoring IT services and supporting incident response?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following best describes the process of IT Event Management?
 Identifying, documenting, tracking and reporting on Major Incidents.
 Serves as a troubleshooter for operating system problems.
 Monitoring systems and applications to prevent Major Incidents.
 Remediating incidents before they become Major incidents.


3.
Do you have experience in planning, developing and implementing efforts to provide assistance and guidance in technical areas?
 No experience.
 Less than 1 year.
 2-3 years.
 4+ years.


4.
What level of experience do you have in performing studies to determine current and future use of IT equipment?
 None
 Beginner (less than 2 years).
 Intermediate (2-4 years).
 Expert (5+ years).


5.
Knowledge of and skill in applying IT principles, methods, practices and procedures to identify and resolve issues and problems (multiple selections).
 A. Conflict management techniques to resolve disputes among team members.
 B. Technical troubleshooting methods for IT service outages.
 C. Administrative skills for performance appraisals and leave management.
 D. Financial management for budget planning and resource allocation.
 E. Customer support concepts to enhance user satisfaction.
 F. None of the above.


6.
Knowledge of financial and contract management principles involved in IT Invoice/Payment approvals and certifications.
 I have managed invoice certification and reviews.
 I have no experience managing invoice certification and reviews.


7.
What level experience do you have interfacing with telecommunication/data service contractors?
 None.
 Less than 2 years.
 3-5 years.
 6+ years.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙