Position Title
FUL - Land Law Examiner
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
OR-FUL-13001839-ZAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the Oregon State Office, located at 1220 SW 3rd Avenue, Portland, OR 97204

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Land Law Examiner position with the Bureau of Land Management in Portland, Oregon. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in determining your eligibility to be considered for the position. Choose the response that best represents your education, experience, and training. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. It is important to note that all of your responses are subject to review and verification against the information you provided in your resume and/or supporting documentation. If after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be rated ineligible, or your score will be lowered.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one statement that most accurately describes the education and/or specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Land Law Examiner position at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent in the Federal service. Read all responses before making your selection.
 I have one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing the following: (1) Processing a variety of quasi-legal or legal documents, such as title abstracts, leases, contracts, deeds, mortgages, real estate records, legal land descriptions, land titles or tract maps; (2) Conducting legal research to collect, verify, interpret, and analyze regulations, laws and information involving legal land descriptions; (3) Conducting legal document examinations related to land law examining and its relation to public land laws, mineral leasing, and/or mining laws; (4) Communicating orally and in writing to communicate with internal/external stakeholders and to prepare reports or written materials; and (5) Utilizing computer equipment and software applications to input, manipulates, update, and maintain data and request reports. (NOTE: Your resume must clearly demonstrate this required specialized experience).
 I have at least one year of graduate level education from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to the work of the position (including law school) that included or was supplemented by 12 semester hours of course work related to the administration of land laws. Examples include course work in land surveying, cartography, land use law, real estate law, land appraising, land use planning, water rights, mining laws, or legal instrument review and interpretation. This education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (NOTE: You must submit copies of your official transcripts).
 I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate level education described above in A and B, when combined, equals 100% of the total requirement. This education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your official transcripts, and your resume must clearly show this required specialized experience.)
 I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor's degree in a curriculum that is qualifying for this position as described above from an accredited college or university, and meets one of the requirements for Superior Academic Achievement based on the following: (1) class standing (upper third standing in the graduating class of a college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses); (2) grade-point average (3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0) as recorded on the official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or (3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; (3) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society. Applicants who qualify for GS-7 on the basis of the superior academic achievement provision must have had at least 12 semester hours of course work related to the administration of land laws. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your official transcripts that show a confer/completion date and any additional documentation to support your response to this question).
 I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience described above and do not qualify for this position.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one statement that most accurately describes the education and/or specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Land Law Examiner position at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent in the Federal service. Read all responses before making your selection.
 I have one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing the following: Conducting record searches to document decisions related to public land and mineral leasing laws to adjudicate actions and determine criteria for special conditions, applications, patents, or requests; (2) Utilizing land surveying terminology and land record systems to interpret and understand legal land descriptions; (3) Determining surface and mineral ownership status from surface and quad maps, Master Title Plats, mineral plats, court decisions, commercial legal publications, or other related manuals and guidance; (4) Communicating orally and in writing to convey decisions on applications and to provide responses to questions from the public and/or other internal/external organizations; and (5) Utilizing computer equipment and software applications to input, manipulate, update, and maintain data and request reports. (NOTE: Your resume must clearly show this required specialized experience).
 I have successfully completed at least two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to the work of the position (including law school) that included or was supplemented by 12 semester hours of course work related to the administration of land laws. Examples include course work in land surveying, cartography, land use law, real estate law, land appraising, land use planning, water rights, mining laws, or legal instrument review and interpretation. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (You must submit a copy of your official transcripts, and your resume must clearly show this required specialized experience).
 I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and graduate level education described above in A and B, when combined, equals 100% of the total requirement. Please note only graduate education in excess of one year (18 semester hours) may be used to qualify under this option. This education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (Note: You must submit a copy of your official transcripts).
 I do not have the level of specialized experience and/or education described in the statements above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙