Position Title
Supervisory Management and Program Analysis Officer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-12999423-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Department of the Commerce employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service and has held a permanent position in the competitive service at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of the Commerce, regardless of status, who is eligible for consideration under a noncompetitive authority such as those specific to veterans, individuals with disabilities, Pathways Interns, Recent Graduates, and Presidential Management Fellows who are eligible for noncompetitive conversion, etc.; or current or former employees of a land management agency who is serving or previously served on a temporary or term appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Department of the Commerce employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
 Yes
 No


5.
Have you previously served as a NOAA Commissioned Officer under NOAA Corps and separated honorably after at least 3 years of active service?

To verify your eligibility as a former NOAA Corps Officer, you must submit a copy of your NOAA Form 56-16.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Juneau, AK
 C. Long Beach, CA
 D. Sacramento, CA
 E. San Diego, CA
 F. Santa Rosa, CA
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Panama City, FL
 I. Saint Petersburg, FL
 J. Honolulu, HI
 K. Silver Spring, MD
 L. Gloucester, MA
 M. Woods Hole, MA
 N. Pascagoula, MS
 O. Beaufort, NC
 P. Newport, OR
 Q. Portland, OR
 R. Narragansett, RI
 S. Galveston, TX
 T. Lacey, WA
 U. Seattle, WA


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Supervisory Management and Program Analysis Officer, ZA-0343-5 or equivalent grade level (GS-15) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-4) or GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Directing or providing guidance on administrative functions for a multidisciplinary program with dispersed locations (such as budget planning and execution activities, human resource management and workforce planning and facilities management, etc.); Providing strategic advice to senior level officials on a wide range of administrative policy and programmatic matters involving significant or controversial issues; and Developing and implementing administrative policies, procedures and initiatives to meet organizational needs and accomplish program objectives.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
You are asked to perform an organizational workforce analysis to improve "organizational effectiveness and efficiency." Which of the following is the most critical first step?

 Hiring additional staff immediately to see if productivity increases.
 Reviewing current position descriptions and comparing them to actual daily tasks and mission-critical needs.
 Eliminating all telework to ensure every employee is visible in the office at all times.
 Increasing the annual budget request without reviewing current spending patterns.


2.
When conducting a study of work processes to improve organizational effectiveness, what is the most reliable indicator that a process needs to be redesigned?

 The process has remained unchanged for more than five years.
 High-performing staff members are frequently bypassing the formal process to meet deadlines.
 The process requires the use of digital spreadsheets rather than automated software.
 The process is managed by a single department rather than multiple teams.


3.
When delivering a presentation on a sensitive policy change, what is the best way to maintain professional "organizational prestige"?

 Downplay the negative impacts to avoid conflict during the meeting.
 Cite authoritative guidelines and explain how the change directly supports the broader mission.
 Tell the staff that the decision was made by "Headquarters" and you have no personal input.
 Only present the information to senior management and avoid staff-wide communication


4.
You are in a role that provides full supervisory authority to subordinates, what would that include?

 Limited authority over project assignments.
 Distributing work, evaluating performance, approving expenses, and resolving any employee conflicts.
 Authority to manage external contractors only.
 Authority to oversee training programs only.


5.
"Full range of supervisory functions" includes not only assigning and reviewing work but also providing technical guidance and ensuring team members understand how their work contributes to the overall mission.

 True
 False


6.
Effective Supervision & Mentorship: A "full-range" supervisor is responsible for which of the following regarding their team's professional development? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Providing specific technical guidance when a task is assigned.
 B. Ensuring every employee receives the exact same tasks regardless of their individual skill level.
 C. Reviewing completed work to ensure it meets quality standards and agency objectives.
 D. Explaining how individual tasks contribute to the broader goals of the organization.
 E. Protecting the team from all feedback from senior leadership.


7.
When developing a new administrative directive, the most effective approach is to gather input from the staff members who will be responsible for executing the tasks.

 True
 False


8.
When conducting evaluations of the effectiveness of program operations, which factors should you consider during your analysis? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Alignment of current activities with agency mission and policies.
 B. The personal social media activity of individual employees.
 C. The accuracy and maintenance of fiscal controls (cuff records).
 D. The efficiency of administrative services and information management programs.
 E. Compliance with safety and environmental standards within the facility.


9.
When implementing a new agency-wide policy that significantly changes how staff submits time and attendance, what is the primary goal of the "Initial Communication" phase?

 To demand immediate compliance under threat of disciplinary action.
 To explain the technical complexities of the software code used in the change.
 To connect the policy change to the organization’s mission and address how it will impact staff daily workflows.
 To ask for a staff vote on whether the policy should be adopted.


10.
Effective fiscal control requires a supervisor to monitor "obligations" (money committed to be spent) as well as "expenditures" (Money has already been paid out.)

 True
 False


11.
You are the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) and observe a contractor consistently failing to meet key project milestones, indicating a potential for delinquent performance. According to best practice for contract administration, what is the most critical immediate action the COR should take?

 Immediately withhold all pending contract payments until the performance issue is resolved.
 Promptly document the observed failures and formally notify the Contracting Officer (CO) of the potential delinquency to protect the government's contractual rights.
 Verbally direct the contractor to remedy the failure and agree to a new schedule without consulting the CO.
 Terminate the contract for cause and begin searching for a replacement vendor.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙