Position Title
Senior Officer-Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
26-IN-12992007-TMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SEC employee of the hiring Division/Office? 

For the purposes of hiring for positions in the excepted service, any current SEC employee within the Division/Office may apply.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. Denver, CO
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Atlanta, GA
 G. Chicago, IL
 H. Boston, MA
 I. New York, NY
 J. Philadelphia, PA
 K. Fort Worth, TX


2.
From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 I am an external candidate, and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, I will be permitted to provide an updated comprehensive resume to determine salary. If an updated resume is not provided within 3 days of being notified of your selection, pay will be established based on the resume submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.


3.
How did you hear about this position?
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)


4.
Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:


5.
I affirm that my application and all supporting documentation requested by the Securities and Exchange Commission was not created using Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)) tools. I am aware that any misrepresentation of my education, training or experience can lead to my disqualification of the hiring process.
 Yes
 No


6.
I understand if selected, I will be required to report to the duty station(s) listed.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Senior Officer - Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel position, in the Division of Enforcement for the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Do you possess a JD or LL.B Degree?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an active member of the bar in good standing in any state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?

 Yes
 No


3.
Select the statement that best describes your experience.
 I possess at least four years of post J.D. work experience identifying legal issues, providing legal analyses, providing legal solutions/recommendations, and preparing legal documents, which also includes at least three years of specialized experience: 1. Interpreting Federal securities laws; and 2. Conducting investigations or litigations and enforcement activities under the Federal securities Acts relating to the anti-fraud, anti-manipulative, and other provisions of the Acts.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙