Position Title
Kinesiotherapist - Safe Patient Handling Program Manager
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-13048968-26-GH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Kinesiotherapist GS-0635-12 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Kinesiotherapist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by [38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education.
A bachelor's degree or higher from a program accredited by the Commissionon Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with aconcentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy. OR
A bachelor's degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis inkinesiotherapy or exercise science related field and registered as akinesiotherapist in good standing with the COPSKT. OR
A master's degree or higher with a degree in exercise science, kinesiology, human performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program. The completion of the certificate ensures that COPSKT has approved the degree program as part of the application process for the COE internship.

Foreign Graduates. Graduates of a foreign program meets the requirements if they have a full unrestricted and current registration to practice kinesiotherapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States or in the District of Columbia. They must have at a minimum, proof of a degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credentialing evaluation company).
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher from a program accredited by the Commissionon Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with aconcentration/emphasis in kinesiotherapy.
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis inkinesiotherapy or exercise science related field and registered as akinesiotherapist in good standing with the COPSKT.
 I have a master’s degree or higher with a degree in exercise science, kinesiology, human performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program.
 I am a foriegn graduate, have a full unrestricted & current registration to practice kinesiotherapy in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States or in the District of Columbia. I also have proof of a degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credentialing evaluation company)
 I do not have the education and/or experience described above.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Registration. All applicants must be registered in kinesiotherapy in good standing with the COPSKT.

Do you have a current, unrestricted, active registration in kinesiotherapy?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide your registration information. 
Name on registration:
Issuing state, territory, or agency:
Complete registration number:
Expiration date:


Grade Requirements
In addition to the basic requirements for appointment, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Kinesiotherapist (Program Coordinator), GS-12
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11).

Assignments at the GS-11 grade level. Duties may include, but are not limited to, any of the following: pre- habilitation, acute, sub-acute, transitional, home-based, post rehabilitative, and wellness programs. Administer musculoskeletal, neurological, ergonomic, biomechanical, psychological, and task specific functional tests and measures in order to reach maximum outcomes. Coordinate and collaborate within a multidisciplinary team to provide comprehensive care, employ multiple treatment approaches and to accomplish complex treatment objectives. The kinesiotherapist may perform duties such as, accurately test, analyze, evaluate, and record measurements of vitals, muscular strength, endurance, range of motion, coordination, static/dynamic balance, cardiovascular endurance, gait analysis, posture, gross sensory impairment, functional mobility, activities of daily living, and prosthetic and orthotic gait, care and training. Provide education to patients, caregivers and other health care professionals regarding policies and procedures for guidance to maneuver through the health care system. Kinesiotherapists monitor and report on work status, program quality, performance improvement data, and make recommendations for process improvement.

Do you meet the grade requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


5.
Kinesiotherapist (Program Coordinator), GS-12
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge and skills necessary to provide patient care and to provide advice to staff on planning and implementation of comprehensive treatment programs.
(b) Knowledge of VA policies and procedures to represent the medical center.
(c) Knowledge and skills to analyze, evaluate, and monitor issues concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of programs that will impact activities or functions such as: supplies, equipment, budget, and recruitment.
(d) Skill in providing clinical and administrative oversight of a multidisciplinary team.
(e) Ability to collaborate with strategic planning committees at local, VISN, or national level for new ventures addressing patient care delivery systems, facilities management, systems reorganization, etc.
(f) Ability to provide guidance and advise program administrators, members of the community, and medical center leadership.

Do you meet the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume meeting the experience, KSAs and supporting documents.    

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. 

LICENSE and /or CERTIFICATION   - Please provide a copy of your licensure and/or certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙