Position Title
Supervisory Information Technology Specialist (APPSW)
Agency
Defense Security Cooperation Agency
Announcement Number
DSCA-26-12891376-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mechanicsburg, PA
 B. Arlington, VA


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level experience that you fully possess for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. This Information Technology related experience demonstrates my attention to detail, customer service, oral communication, and problem solving. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Creditable specialized experience includes: Directing a large group of subject matter experts and been responsible for oversees all aspects of updates and maintenance of systems under purview including functional systems analysis, design, programming, testing, and implementation; establishing, reviewing and approving technical approaches for system modifications including impacts to design, analysis, programming requirements, and funding for modification, testing, equipment level of effort, training, conversion of code, implementation, life cycle maintenance, and increased efficiency and effectiveness in supporting system components; directing the configuration of commercial off the shelf (COTS) or development of custom software applications, the identification of process and performance gaps in the software, and the design and build software to identified gaps.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙