Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor
Agency
U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
Announcement Number
MCGP-26-13006800-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Question
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks including: 1) Exercising administrative and technical supervision of maintenance mechanic work activities (i.e., analyzing and making repairs on a variety of equipment and systems [e.g., refrigeration and air conditioning, plumbing, and pipefitting, heating, electrical, electronics, kitchen]); 2) Determining work flow, equipment capabilities, material, skills and amounts of time required to accomplish work operations (i.e., adjustment, repair, or replacement of components [e.g., transformers, motors, electrodes, relays, solenoids, switches, thermostats, rheostats, aqua stats, stack switches, duct stats]); I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks including: 1) Exercising administrative and technical supervision of maintenance mechanic work activities (i.e., analyzing and making repairs on a variety of equipment and systems [e.g., refrigeration and air conditioning, plumbing, and pipefitting, heating, electrical, electronics, kitchen]); I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks including: 1) Providing technical oversight to the repair of a variety of equipment and systems (e.g., refrigeration and air conditioning, plumbing, and pipefitting, heating, electrical, electronics, kitchen); I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple lead duties such as advising employees on new techniques and I have made training recommendations to supervisors based on the training needs of the employees.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.  Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙