Position Title
Food and Beverage Operations Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0290 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the Food and Beverage Operations Manager position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Which of the following best describes your qualifications for the Food and Beverage Operations Manager positon?
 I have three (3) years of progressive experience in business operations.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience in the lower grade.
 None of the above


2.
Select the option that best describes your supervisor Experience.
 I have over five (5) years supervisory experience with Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities.
 I have over five (5) years supervisory experience with Non-Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities.
 I have three (3) months to (5) years supervisory experience with Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities.
 I have three (3) months to (5) years supervisory experience with Non-Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities.
 I have less than three (3) months of supervisory experience.


3.
Select the Experience in culinary, catering or special event practices such as food preparation, contract preparations, scheduling, costing & pricing out food, and etc. (in the last 5 years)
 I have over five (5) years of culinary experience with Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities
 I have over five (5) years of culinary experience with Non-Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities.
 I have three (3) months to (5) years of culinary experience with Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities
 I have three (3) months to (5) years of culinary experience with Non-Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities.
 I have less than three (3) months of supervisory experience.


4.
How many years of practice and application of your knowledge of Navy Club policies, regulations, management procedures and general business practices in scheduling & coordinating Club social & recreational programs do you have?
 I have over five (5) years of practice and application with Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities
 I have over five (5) years of practice and application with Non-Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities
 I have three (3) months to (5) years of practice and application with Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities
 I have three (3) months to (5) years of practice and application with Non-Department of Defense/Department of Navy facilities
 I have less than three (3) months of practice and application.


5.
Please select the option that best describes your education.
 I have a bachelor’s degree in hospitality, Business Administration /Management, or Restaurant Management
 I have a bachelor’s degree in a related field. (Accounting, Culinary, Recreation, Business Operations, Management)
 I have an associate's degree in a field mentioned above
 I have a Food & Beverage Certification (ServSafe, Food Handler's, etc.)
 None of the above


6.
Select all the options you have experence with.
 A. Point of Sale System such as MICROS, ALOHA, RECTRAC
 B. Inventory systems, such as FoodTrak, Revel, MarketMan
 C. Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint)
 D. Catering Management System such as Caterease, etc.
 E. Food & Beverage Service
 F. none of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙