Position Title
Medical Administration Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12929069-26-BLM Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-7: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-07 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-5) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Medical Administration Specialist. Qualifying specialized experience includes basic knowledge of medical center organization, functions, specialties, and programs, i.e., Social Work, Nursing, Laboratory, Radiology, etc.; experience locating and interpreting regulations from a wide range of sources; reviewing data and information for trends, problem areas, and makes recommendations to management to resolve issues; ability to cope with wide variety of problems and to resolve them quickly and decisively; and explain and organize complex issues in writing. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week.
 I have at least one (1) full year of successfully completed graduate level education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education beyond a bachelor’s degree may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-7 level. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 Superior Academic Achievement (SAA): I meet the qualification requirements for this position using SAA. I have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled and I meet one of the following: • Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university or major subdivision. • A grade-point average of "B" (a GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. • A grade point average of "B+" (a GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. • Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. For a list of recognized honor societies please visit http://www.achsnatl.org/quick_link.asp. NOTE: Copies of transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have none of the above.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-9: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-09 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-7) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Medical Administration Specialist. Qualifying specialized experience includes experienced using a wide range of medical center administrative concepts, principles, and practices; provides technical guidance necessary to meet procedural, legal, and administrative requirements relating to the care and treatment of patients; reviewing data and information for trends, problem areas, and makes recommendations to management to resolve issues; interpreting rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to make sound decisions; and identify and analyze complex problems or situations with a range of variables. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week.
 I have successfully completed two (2) years of progressively higher-level graduate education or masters or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D., in a related field of the position to be filled. Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education in excess of the first year (18 semester hours) may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-9 level. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I have none of the above.


VETERAN'S PREFERENCE DOCUMENTATION REMINDER - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed:
Job title;
Duties (be as detailed as possible);
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008);
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.  
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to Administration and Management (Knowledge of planning, coordination, and execution of business functions, resource allocation, and production.).


1.
Task: Processes administrative issues surrounding medical or patient care situations.
A patient's chart is missing essential consent forms required for an upcoming surgery. The most appropriate step the Medical Administration Specialist must take to process this administrative issue is to:

 Cancel the surgery immediately, as a missing form means the physician is at fault.
 Advise the physician to simply verbally document the consent in the electronic health record (EHR) to save time.
 Wait for the clerical staff to arrive the next business day to search for the paper forms.
 Initiate the established policy for obtaining and verifying informed consent in an expedited manner, coordinating between the clinical team and the patient to resolve the missing documentation prior to the procedure.


2.
Task: Provides orientation and situational technical advice to physicians regarding facility policies and procedures.
A newly hired physician asks how to properly submit a request for an unusual piece of medical equipment, which requires a budget exception. The most complete and accurate technical advice you should provide is to:

 Explain the step-by-step process for non-routine procurement, including the required justification documentation, the specific approval flow (e.g., Service Chief, Budget Office), and the policy manual location for reference.
 Tell the physician to contact the Chief of Staff directly, as you do not handle equipment requests.
 Simply provide the physician with a blank purchase request form and tell them to fill it out completely.
 Advise the physician to just purchase the equipment out-of-pocket and seek reimbursement later.


3.
Task: Promotes harmonious working relationship among patients, public, and staff.
During a busy shift, a patient overhears a negative comment made by one staff member about another. To promote a harmonious working relationship, you should take which action?

 Publicly reprimand the staff member who made the negative comment to demonstrate authority.
 Tell the patient to ignore the comment, as staff gossip is normal.
 Immediately write a memo to all staff reminding them that gossip is a fireable offense.
 Intervene calmly to diffuse the situation, professionally address the staff member(s) privately to reinforce policies on respectful communication, and ensure the patient's concerns are addressed without delay.


4.
Task: Assists in responding to emergencies, determines priorities and nature of action to be taken.
A major water line break requires an immediate and unannounced evacuation of a specific clinic area during non-business hours. The highest priority and action when responding to this emergency is to:

 Begin a complete inventory of the damaged government property and equipment.
 Call the Director's office to find out if the evacuation is covered under the emergency weather plan.
 Turn off all the lights in the affected area to save electricity.
 Execute the official facility emergency plan (e.g., activating communication trees, notifying relevant services like Police/Fire, documenting the time/cause), prioritizing patient and staff safety, and coordinating immediate administrative needs for patient transfer.


5.
Task: Assists with computer issues during non-business hours.
On a weekend shift, a physician's workstation cannot log in to the EHR system, impacting patient care. The official IT Help Desk is closed. The appropriate assistance with this computer issue is to:

 Tell the physician to use a paper chart until the IT Help Desk opens on Monday morning.
 Utilize established administrative and technical knowledge to perform first-line troubleshooting (e.g., checking network connectivity, performing authorized restarts) and, if unsuccessful, contact the facility's designated on-call IT or ADPAC resource according to policy.
 Attempt to fix the problem by guessing random administrative passwords.
 Direct the physician to use another staff member's log-in credentials.


6.
Task: Monitors facility fire system, refrigerator temperature alarms, fire alarms, and intrusion alarms and codes.
You receives an alarm indicating a critical temperature deviation in the pharmacy's medication refrigerator. The immediate and correct administrative action to take is to:

 Write down the time of the alarm and mention it to the pharmacy staff the following morning.
 Immediately follow the facility's alarm response protocol to notify the responsible clinical/safety personnel (e.g., Pharmacy On-Call, Engineering) and accurately document the alarm event, time, and notifications made.
 Assume the alarm is false and reset the alarm code without investigating the temperature.
 Attempt to open and inspect the contents of the pharmacy refrigerator without proper authorization.


The following statements pertain to Legal, Government and Jurisprudence (Knowledge of planning, coordination, and execution of business functions, resource allocation, and production.).


7.
Task: Provides technical guidance necessary to meet procedural, legal, and administrative requirements relating to the care and treatment of patients.
A surgical team needs clarification on the procedure for obtaining a non-standard consent for a new procedure. The most appropriate technical guidance you provide must emphasize:

 A suggestion to simplify the consent form by removing all legal language.
 A general statement that the consent must be "signed by the patient."
 The specific, legally mandated steps for documenting capacity, witness requirements, approved forms, and required policy waivers or approvals to ensure procedural and legal compliance.
 That since the procedure is new, there are no legal requirements yet.


8.
Task: Interprets rules and regulations to determining legal entitlement to benefits relating to hospital admission.
A Veteran is requesting admission for a service, and their eligibility status is unclear based on a new federal regulation. The primary action in interpreting the rules and regulations is to:

 Automatically deny the admission because new regulations always complicate eligibility.
 Ask the Veteran to read the federal register and interpret the rule for you.
 Interpret the rule based on how a similar case was handled three years ago, before the new rule.
 Consult the official agency manuals and legal guidance interpreting the new federal regulation to precisely determine the patient's current legal entitlement to the requested hospital benefit and admission.


9.
Task: Coordinates the resolution of medical legal problems concerning medical centers.
A patient threatens to sue the medical center over a billing dispute that involves complex fee-basis regulations. To coordinate the resolution of this medical legal problem, you should prioritize:

 Telling the patient that they do not have a case and refusing to take any further action.
 Personally researching and citing previous court cases to the patient to argue the facility's position.
 Serving as the liaison to gather all required medical and administrative documentation, coordinating the facts with the facility's legal counsel or appropriate internal office (e.g., Patient Advocate, Fiscal), and facilitating a compliant resolution.
 Destroying the administrative records related to the billing dispute to eliminate evidence.


10.
Task: Ensures that appropriate legal, regulatory, and policy requirements are met.
You are reviewing documentation for a patient transfer to an outside facility. The most crucial legal/regulatory requirement to ensure is met before the transfer proceeds is:

 Verifying that all necessary signed release of information (ROI) authorizations, patient consents for transfer, and administrative approvals for out-of-network care (if applicable) are complete and on file.
 Ensuring the patient has packed all their personal belongings.
 Confirming the outside facility's cafeteria menu for the day of the transfer.
 That the transfer is done exactly at midnight to meet a non-existent deadline.


11.
Task: Safeguards and ensures rights of patient.
A non-medical staff member is attempting to review a patient's confidential chart without a need-to-know. To safeguard and ensure the patient's rights (specifically privacy), you must:

 Give the staff member a copy of the chart but tell them not to share it.
 Ask the patient if they mind the staff member viewing their chart.
 Immediately intervene to prevent unauthorized access, advise the staff member of the Privacy Act/HIPAA violations, and report the incident to the appropriate supervisor and/or Information Security Officer.
 Assume the staff member has good intentions and allow them to proceed.


The following statements pertain to Analytical Reasoning (Identifies issues and analyzes information to draw accurate conclusions, ensuring careful attention to detail. Dissects problems and information into their meaningful parts, and uses logic and judgment to evaluate alternatives and develop solutions.).


12.
Task: Conducts analytical studies on operational processes, issue topics, or related special projects.
Management requests an analytical study on the efficiency of the patient discharge process. The core analytical focus of this study must be on:

 Interviewing the cleanest patient rooms in the hospital for feedback.
 Simply counting the total number of patient discharges over the last week.
 Creating a new flow chart of the process based only on verbal descriptions from staff.
 Decomposing the discharge process into discrete steps, identifying bottlenecks and redundant activities (e.g., using Lean methodologies), measuring the time spent at each point, and comparing the current process to policy.


13.
Task: Reviews data and information for trends, problem areas, and makes recommendations to management to resolve issues.
Data analysis shows a spike in patient complaints about delays in receiving lab results. The most effective recommendation to management to resolve this issue would be:

 Recommend the laboratory stop sending out any results until the system is fixed.
 Recommend the patient scheduling staff start telling patients that lab results will be delayed.
 Propose a process-based solution, such as implementing an automated notification system for physicians upon result completion, establishing a service level agreement (SLA) for result review, and training staff on patient communication protocols for delays.
 Recommend that the facility hire an external consultant to look at the issue next year.


14.
Task: Performing analytical studies that require study planning, statistical measurement, data analysis, and report preparation and development using databases and dashboards available through the organization.
When using an organizational dashboard to perform a statistical measurement for an analytical study, the primary concern must be:

 Ensuring the dashboard's colors and graphics are visually appealing for the final report.
 Only selecting the data that confirms your pre-existing hypothesis.
 Confirming that the data extracted (statistical measurement) is from the correct date range, uses defined variables and methodologies, and is accurately interpreted to ensure the validity and reliability of the final report's conclusions.
 Collecting the raw data and discarding the data dictionary (metadata) used to define it.


The following statements pertain to Customer Service (Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.).


15.
Task: Assists medical center staff with medically related problems, including involuntary commitments, orders of protective custody, and management of unruly or severely disturbed patients.
A staff member contacts you needing immediate assistance with an involuntary commitment order. The appropriate action to assist the staff is to:

 Tell the staff member that they must contact the facility's legal team during regular business hours.
 Suggest the staff member try to verbally de-escalate the patient without involving law enforcement.
 Immediately locate and execute the administrative protocol for involuntary commitment, coordinating the involvement of the on-call physician, security/police, and necessary legal paperwork to ensure compliance and patient/staff safety.
 Order all staff in the area to ignore the patient until the commitment papers are filed.


16.
Task: Implements search plan for missing patients; informs next-of-kin of search status, as appropriate.
A patient is declared missing from a clinical unit. After initiating the physical search plan, the next most important action regarding informing next-of-kin is to:

 Call the local news media to report a missing person.
 Wait 72 hours before attempting to contact the next-of-kin to confirm the patient is truly missing.
 Immediately provide the next-of-kin with the patient's full medical record upon their inquiry.
 Reference the patient's record to determine the authorized Next-of-Kin (NOK), adhere to HIPAA/Privacy Act rules when providing only approved search status updates, and document all communication in the administrative record.


17.
Task: Receives and responds to non-routine patient condition inquiries and other administrative inquiries.
A family member calls with a non-routine patient condition inquiry (e.g., "When will the specialist arrive to consult on the patient's unusual diagnosis?"). The correct way for you to receive and respond to this inquiry is to:

 Provide an estimate based on your personal opinion of the physician's schedule.
 Refuse to take the call and hang up because the inquiry is "non-routine."
 Verify the caller's authorization to receive information, consult the relevant clinical or administrative service for the most accurate information (e.g., the scheduled consult time), and relay the verified information professionally and compliantly.
 Inform the family member that the patient's condition is "fine" without consulting the clinical team.


18.
Task: Administratively approves and coordinates tests and procedures for patients which cannot be done at current medical center.
A physician submits a request for a specialized MRI that can only be done at a non-VA facility 100 miles away. The primary administrative responsibility when approving and coordinating this non-VA test is to ensure:

 The non-VA facility is the absolute cheapest option available, regardless of patient preference.
 The patient drives themselves 100 miles without any travel reimbursement.
 The test is scheduled only for the next calendar year's budget.
 All required authorization (e.g., eligibility, medical justification, fund control, non-VA approval), appointment scheduling, and patient travel logistics are fully documented and coordinated in compliance with Fee Basis/Non-VA Care policy.


19.
Task: Coordinates with Funeral homes and releases patient's remains during non-business hours.
When coordinating the release of patient remains to a funeral home during non-business hours, the most critical administrative-legal step is to:

 Verify the funeral home representative’s identity, confirm the next-of-kin's authorized release documentation is complete and on file, ensure proper administrative logging of the transfer, and strictly adhere to all chain-of-custody protocols.
 Allow the funeral home to remove the remains based on a verbal promise to bring the paperwork later.
 Insist that the remains must wait until the Chief of Staff can personally sign the release form the next morning.
 Release the remains only to the first person who arrives claiming to be from a funeral home.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙