Position Title
Machinist
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-13024412-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 20% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 20% of the time?
 Yes
 No


TERM Employment
1.
This is a Term position scheduled to last {insert months and/or years}. A term position may be extended to a maximum of six years depending upon the needs of management. Are you available for term employment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Machinist position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Machinist duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks and Machinist duties which includes manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding parts and items of equipment utilizing different metals and metal alloy; operate and maintain conventional machinery; set up, operate, program, and maintain Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery; read and interpret sketches, blueprints, plans and manufacturers specifications. I am skilled in utilizing basic shop and trade mathematics including algebraic, geometric, and trigonometric formula. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks and Machinist duties which includes manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding equipment parts and items; operate and maintain conventional machinery; set up, operate, program, and maintain Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery. I am skilled in utilizing basic shop and trade mathematics. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Machinist duties includes manufacturing, repairing, and rebuilding equipment parts and item; set up, operate, program, and maintain Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) machinery. I can check requirements for drawings and written instructions; use basic math; and a variety of tools. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Machinist duties or served as labor or helper on construction sites, or I have received training on use of basic hand tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙