Position Title
Deputy Chief Information Officer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
26-CIO-12926518 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Required Vacancy Questions
1.
Are you a United States citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you hear about this position?
 A. USAJOBs Search
 B. Executive Recruitment Firm
 C. Job Fair
 D. Professional Network
 E. Friend/Family Member
 F. Community Outreach Event
 G. Career Search Website
 H. Social Media (Twitter, LinkedIn)
 I. Other


4.
If you selected OTHER to the previous question, please provide the source.


5.
Have you reviewed the Required Documents section of this vacancy announcement? Failure to provide any of the required documentation when requested will result in lost consideration.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current Federal civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


7.
If you are a Federal civilian employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?

Note: If you are unsure of your appointment type, refer to your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50), ask your servicing human resources office, or contact the human resources representative listed in the vacancy announcement.
Career, competitive service
Career-conditional, competitive service
Pathways Internship Program
Pathways Recent Graduate Program
Pathways Presidential Management Fellows Program
Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year)
Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
Veterans Recruitment Authority (VRA)
Schedule A (Disabilities)
Excepted Service
Other
Not Applicable
New Response


8.
If you answered "Other" to the previous question, please enter your current appointment type.
Note: Enter "Not applicable" if this does not apply to you.


9.
If you are a current Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee.
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA).
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS).
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS).
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA).
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA).
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA).
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA).
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
Other


10.

If you answered "Other" to the previous question, please enter the agency and organization. Enter 'Not Applicable' if this does not apply to you.


11.
Are you eligible for reinstatement to a Senior Executive Service position based on prior Federal service and you are NOT currently serving in the competitive service as a permanent career or career-conditional Federal civilian employee?

Note: For more information on reinstatement eligibility, refer to: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/reinstatement
You will be required to submit a copy of a Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) as proof of your reinstatement eligibility. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for information on submitting documentation.
 Yes
 No


12.

If you answered "Yes" to the previous question, please indicate the beginning and ending dates of your prior Federal civilian employment. Enter 'Not applicable' if this does not apply to you.
Note: Use the format from MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY.


13.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest grade level or pay band you held on a permanent basis. Enter 'Not Applicable' if this does not apply to you.
Note: You can locate your pay plan in Block #16 on your Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50).


14.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the highest grade level (or equivalent) you held on a permanent basis that corresponds to the pay plan you identified in the previous question.
Note: You can locate your grade level (or equivalent) in Block #18 on your Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50)


15.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the beginning and ending dates of the highest grade level (or equivalent) that you identified in the previous question.
Enter 'Not Applicable' if this does not apply to you.


16.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service, what is the highest full performance level (promotion potential) of the position you held on a permanent basis? Enter "Not applicable" if this does not apply to you.
Note: Your highest full performance level should be shown in the "Remarks" section of you Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that documents your initial placement into that position


17.
Does the Department of Commerce employ any member of your family?
 Yes
 No


18.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service system?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


19.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity?
Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No


20.
Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙