Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist (Branch Chief)
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
26-NRLFO-13024628-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Schenectady, NY
 B. Pittsburgh, PA


2.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Contract Specialist (Branch Chief), NQ-1102-03, position. Please provide an answer for all questions.


1.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT
This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement that must be met prior to meeting the specialized experience. To qualify you must have a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.

-AND-

Completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher-level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions with at least 1 year of that experience satisfying the specialized experience described in the qualification section of the announcement.

NOTE: To receive consideration for this position, you must submit a copy of your transcripts for review. Your supporting documents must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 I meet all basic requirements identified above.
 I qualify for an exception to the basic requirement because I am in a GS-1102 position and meet the criteria for an exception as described in the qualification section of the announcement. Note: SF-50(s) must be submitted to support claim.
 I do not have the education and/or experience and do not meet the criteria for an exception as described above but I would like to be considered under the waiver that is described in the qualification section of the announcement.
 I do not meet any of the above descriptions and do not meet the basic requirements for this position


2.
To meet the minimum qualification requirements at the NQ-03 level (GS-13/14), select the option that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the NQ-02 pay band or GS-12 level performing ALL of the following duties: Experience with federal contracting laws, regulations, and procedures, skilled in negotiating and administering complex contracts and leading procurement activities; Negotiating and communicating to explain, defend, and advocate positions and build effective internal and external relationships; Supervising teams, including organizing, directing, and reviewing work to achieve mission and project goals; and - Experience with acquisition rules; interpreting guidance for others and presenting complex issues clearly to senior leaders.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the above statement.


3.
Please identify the position and time period (include the month/year) which reflects this experience.



4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my application not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙