Position Title
ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-13025147-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Engineering Equipment Operator position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equipment Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex engineering equipment operations. I am skilled in operating heavy equipment (such as a mobile crane used for critical lifts, push boat & barge, excavator, dozer, motor grader, wheeled loader, skid steer) to perform lifts, excavate, trench or grade surfaces, on flat or rolling terrain. I can perform preventative maintenance on different types of vehicles such as road graders, back hoes, dozers, excavators, diesel tractor trailer combination, etc. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of engineering equipment operations. I am skilled in performing common tasks including operating heavy equipment (such as a mobile crane used for critical lifts, excavator, dozer, motor grader, wheeled loader, skid steer) to perform lifts, fine grade slopes, inclines, ramps, curves, and excavations by scraping, rolling, or leveling on rough and rocky terrain or in dense forest areas. I work on my own initiative after receiving orders from a work leader and complete the work independently, but subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform most engineering equipment operations. I am skilled in operating heavy equipment (such as dozers, motor graders, excavators, and mobile cranes) to perform fine grading, exact sloping, and deep excavations on steep, hilly, or rough terrain. I work under normal supervision of a work leader who observes tasks while in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform some engineering equipment operations. I can operate heavy equipment (such as dozers, graders, and excavators) to perform fine grading, sloping, and excavating on flat or rolling terrain where soil conditions are relatively constant. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common engineering equipment operations. I can operate equipment (such as backhoes, front-end loaders, and tractors) to perform rough grading, tilling, moving/loading materials, and clearing snow on flat terrain. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple or basic equipment operations (such as operating light utility tractors or mowers) or have received training.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙