Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12951427-26-TMB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Time-In-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-07 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-05. For a GS-09 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07. The grade may have been in any non-temporary Federal service occupation. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. (see required documents). NOTE: Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.


Education and/or experience: to qualify for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-07, position, you must have one of the following: a. Education: One full year of related graduate level education or superior academic achievement. Note: the work of the Administrative Officer is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR b. Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 level, that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and this experience is typically in or related to this position to be filled. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to: (1) Performing administrative functions for a service, to include office support, document control, logistics, and related administrative duties, tracking and responding to memoranda and letters, ordering supplies and compiling forms; (2) Assisting with formulating various budgets, monitoring projects, interpreting administrative policies, developing local policies, providing advice to management, maintaining systems and generating various weekly, monthly and annual reports; (3) Assisting with conducting a wide variety of analytical studies and projects related to management improvement, productivity improvement, management controls, and long-range planning; (4) Knowledge of qualitative and quantitative techniques and assessment tools for analyzing and measuring the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of administrative and technical programs; (5) Knowledge of SPS operations, objectives, and policies along with a comprehensive knowledge of management and organizational techniques, systems, and procedures; (6) Utilizing automated systems and software to retrieve and generate a variety of reports to validate data; This experience must be clearly identified in your resume. OR c. Combining Education and Experience: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond the first four years of undergraduate education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the position. Completed course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. (Transcripts must be provided).


1.
Select the answer that best describes your qualification for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-07, position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience at or above the GS-05 grade level for the position. This experience has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. This experience is documented in my resume.
 I have one full year of related graduate level education or superior academic achievement that is related to the position. (Must provide transcripts).
 I have the required experience and education combination that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position. (Must provide transcripts and experience must be in the resume.)
 I do not have the experience and/or education required for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-07, position.


Education and/or experience: to qualify for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-09, position, you must have one of the following: a. Education: A master's degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. Note: the work of the Administrative Officer is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. (Transcripts must be provided). OR b. Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 level, that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and this experience is typically in or related to this position to be filled. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to: (1) Applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions (i.e., internal activities or functions such as supply, budget, procurement, or personnel); (2) Planning, scheduling, and conducting projects and studies to evaluate and recommend ways to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of work operations in a program or support setting; (3) Developing new or modified work methods, organizational structures, records and files, management processes, staffing patterns, procedures for administering program services, guidelines and procedures, and automating work processes for the conduct of administrative support functions or program operations; (4) Analyzing and measuring the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of administrative and technical programs, along with knowledge of the mission, organization, and work processes of SPS processes and operations; (5) Knowledge of resource management principles as they apply to MST staffing, support staff levels, space and facilities management, and procurement of supplies; (6) Knowledge of SPS operations, objectives, and policies along with a comprehensive knowledge of management and organizational techniques, systems, and procedures; (7) Formulating various budgets, monitoring projects, interpreting administrative policies, developing local policies, providing advice to management, maintaining systems and generating various weekly, monthly and annual reports; (8) Utilizing automated systems and software to retrieve and generate a variety of reports to validate data. This experience must be clearly identified in your resume. OR c. Combining Education and Experience: Only graduate education in excess of one full year (18 semester hours) of graduate level education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the position. Completed course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. (Transcripts must be provided).


2.
Select the answer that best describes your qualification for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-09, position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience at or above the GS-07 grade level for the position. This experience has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. This experience is documented in my resume.
 I have the required masters or equivalent degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, that is related to the position. (Must provide transcripts)
 I have the required experience and education combination that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position. (Must provide transcripts and experience must be in the resume.)
 I do not have the experience and/or education required for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-09, position.


RESUME Reminder - ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) Employer Name Employer City, State Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s)) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to.


3.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.
 Yes, I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed.
 NO, I did not provide a resume as required by the vacancy announcement. I understand that failure to provide a resume with the required information will result in not being considered for this vacancy.


TRANSCRIPT Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. Applicants who are basing their qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, and fail to submit the required document(s), will result in NOT being referred.


SF-50 Reminder - An SF-50, Notice of Personal Action is required for federal employees to determine your eligibility to apply. Provide your most current SF-50. This SF-50 must be dated no later than the current year's General Adjustment. Failure to provide the required SF-50(s) will result in NOT being referred.


If the most recent SF-50 that you have attached to this application has an effective date that is not greater than 52 weeks from the closed date of this announcement, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50(s) such as a promotion, within grade increase, or SF50 dated the prior year's general adjustment that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Failure to do so will result in you being found ineligible for not meeting Time in Grade requirements. NOTE: Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.


Additional required documentation may be required such as transcripts, copy of your SF-50, will be indication in the vacancy announcement as "Required". Failure to provide the "Required" document will result in not being referred.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙