Position Title
FUL -Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operating)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
INDE-26-13070766-FUL-JP
Open Period
Sep 30, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised? You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No
2.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement. Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you. Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.
3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. Field Unit Local Hiring is defined as the following counties: Philadelphia, Montgomery, Bucks, Delaware, Berks, Lancaster, Lehigh, Northampton, and Chester in Pennsylvania; Camden, Burlington, Gloucester, Salem, Cumberland, and Mercer in New Jersey; New Castle in Deleware; and Cecil in Maryland. If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No
Laborer AQ
.
ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF A LABORER (MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR) WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT ELEMENT)
1.
Select the one that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Laborer (Motor Vehicle Operator) position. You must show that you meet the experience described below. Make sure your resume supports your response. (SCREEN OUT) MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position. THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 Performed the most difficult and complex laborer tasks including ability to operate trucks weighing up to 10,000 pounds and trailers weighing up to one ton; properly loading and unloading various supplies and equipment; to perform work providing laboring assistance to others in the maintenance of buildings, grounds, roads, and trails; operate power equipment such as lawnmowers, snow blowers, and string trimmers; and safely use a variety of hand tools such as shovels, rakes, hammers, saws, pulaskis, rock bars, etc. Able to safely operate these vehicles/equipment in all types of traffic and weather conditions. I utilize most hand and power tools associated with these tasks including light hand and power and cleaning custodial tools, lawn mowers, snow blowers, and leaf blowers. I have experience performing operator maintenance on all vehicles/equipment operated (e.g. monitoring fluid levels, checking tire pressure and blade replacement/sharpening). I perform these duties as an expert with a high degree of independence. My supervisor assigned work orally, through work orders, or with written specifications. My work was checked to see that it met compliance with work and safety standards and policies.
 I have performed the full range of laborer duties as listed in A above including the operation of and minor maintenance on light duty motor vehicles such as pickup trucks. I utilize most hand and power tools associated with these tasks. I performed these tasks on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection for compliance with work and safety standards and policies.
 I performed common laborer tasks listed above in A. I utilize most hand and power tools associated with these tasks. I performed these tasks as a skilled helper under close supervision and my work was checked during and after completion.
 I am able to perform simple laborer tasks and work under close supervision.
 I know little or nothing about laborer work.
