Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (Engine Captain)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSDHA-26-13060865-CGR1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Preference in filling vacancies is given to qualified Indian candidates in accordance with the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472).

Verification Form BIA-4432 must be submitted with the application if claiming Indian Preference.  For more information about Indian preference or to obtain BIA Form 4432 application instructions, please visit: https://www.bia.gov/jobs.

I am an Indian Preference eligible candidate.
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 7 location(s).
 A. Indian Preference Applies, Parker, AZ
 AB. Wickenburg, AZ
 BC. Yuma, AZ
 BT. Agoura Hills, CA
 BU. Barstow, CA
 BV. Bishop, CA
 BW. Doyle, CA
 BX. Occupancy May be Required, El Portal, CA
 BY. Essex, CA
 BZ. Jamul, CA
 CA. Lee Vining, CA
 CB. Olancha, CA
 CC. Onyx, CA
 CD. Ravendale, CA
 CE. Ridgecrest, CA
 CF. Riverside, CA
 CG. Topaz, CA
 CH. Occupancy May be Required, Yosemite National Park, CA
 CI. Yucca Valley, CA
 CJ. Craig, CO
 CK. Dinosaur, CO
 CL. Indian Preference Applies, Ignacio, CO
 CM. Mesa Verde National Park, CO
 CN. Norwood, CO
 CO. Indian Preference Applies, Towaoc, CO
 CP. Immokalee, FL
 B. Ochopee, FL
 C. Boise, ID
 D. Burley, ID
 E. Indian Preference Applies, Fort Hall, ID
 F. Pocatello, ID
 G. Shoshone, ID
 H. Twin Falls, ID
 I. Gautier, MS
 J. Ashland, MT
 K. Billings, MT
 L. Indian Preference Applies, Crow Agency, MT
 M. Indian Preference Applies, Harlem, MT
 N. Indian Preference Applies, Lame Deer, MT
 O. Lewistown, MT
 P. Miles City, MT
 Q. Indian Preference Applies, Poplar, MT
 R. Battle Mountain, NV
 S. Boulder City, NV
 T. Caliente, NV
 U. Elko, NV
 V. Ely, NV
 W. Eureka, NV
 X. Lovelock, NV
 Y. McDermitt, NV
 Z. Paradise Valley, NV
 AA. Wells, NV
 AC. Winnemucca, NV
 AD. Albuquerque, NM
 AE. Carlsbad, NM
 AF. Indian Preference Applies, Dulce, NM
 AG. Farmington, NM
 AH. Los Alamos, NM
 AI. Indian Preference Applies, Mescalero, NM
 AJ. Roswell, NM
 AK. Indian Preference Applies, San Juan Pueblo, NM
 AL. Taos, NM
 AM. Indian Preference Applies, Zuni, NM
 AN. Columbia, NC
 AO. Manteo, NC
 AP. Indian Preference Applies, Belcourt, ND
 AQ. Coleharbor, ND
 AR. Watford City, ND
 AS. Cache, OK
 AT. Hines, OR
 AU. Klamath Falls, OR
 AV. Lakeview, OR
 AW. Medford, OR
 AX. Prineville, OR
 AY. Indian Preference Applies, Umatilla, OR
 AZ. Vale, OR
 BA. Big Bend National Park, TX
 BB. Bryce Canyon, UT
 BD. Delta, UT
 BE. Escalante, UT
 BF. Fillmore, UT
 BG. Indian Preference Applies, Fort Duchesne, UT
 BH. Grantsville, UT
 BI. Kanab, UT
 BJ. Indian Preference Applies, Saint George, UT
 BK. Vernon, UT
 BL. Burbank, WA
 BM. Marblemount, WA
 BN. Othello, WA
 BO. Spokane Valley, WA
 BP. Wenatchee, WA
 BQ. Indian Preference Applies, Fort Washakie, WY
 BR. Newcastle, WY
 BS. Worland, WY


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Survey Questions
1.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required documentation as part of my resume/application.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


2.
My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment and I have listed my work as Full-Time, Part-Time and have included hours per week worked. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
I have read the announcement and understand that Indian Preference (IP) will be applied to the locations below ONLY. I understand that IP will not be applied to locations NOT listed below.
Parker, AZ
Ignacio, CO
Towaoc, CO
Fort Hall, ID
Crow Agency, MT
Harlem, MT
Lame Deer, MT
Poplar, MT
Belcourt, ND
Dulce, NM
Mesalero, NM
San Juan Pueblo (Ohkay Owingeh), NM
Zuni, NM
Umatilla, OR
Fort Duchesne, UT
Saint George, UT
Fort Washakie, WY
 Yes
 No


4.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


5.
As indicated in the qualifications section of the announcement, this position is a Primary  position. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must meet age and/or service requirements. The maximum entry age is the date immediately preceding your 37th birthday. Select the statement that best describes how you meet the age and/or service requirements.
 I am under 37 years of age.
 I am 37 years of age or older AND I am currently serving and/or have previously served in a Federal civilian position covered by special fire-fighter retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement. I will provide a copy of my most recent SF50 and/or ALL SF50s showing that I have been in a primary covered position, as instructed in the vacancy announcement.
 I am over the age of 37 but under the age of 40. If selected for the position, applicant will receive an opportunity to be considered for an MEA waiver.
 I am a preference eligible veteran and will submit a DD-214 or other related documentation.
 None of the above


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.


1.
I possess a valid current State driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I have held or currently hold the NWCG qualification Incident Commander Type 5 (ICT5) or higher AND Single Resource Boss-Engine (ENGB) or higher AND S-211 "Portable Pumps and Water Use." I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
I qualify for the GW-08 because I have one year of specialized wildland fire experience equivalent to the GW-07 level in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙