Position Title
Medical Records Admin
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-13044040-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Candidates must be United States citizens to be considered for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. As per VA Handbook 5005 chapter 2 section D, paragraph 5a; Medical Records Administrators must be proficient in basic written and spoken English to perform the duties of this position in.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you proficient in the English language?

 Yes
 No


3.
You must meet the basic requirements of the position. Please select from the statements below which accurately describes your education and/or experience as a Medical Records Administrator.

 I possess three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems.
 I possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.
 I possess an equivalent combination of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent of the basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
 I do not possess any of the education and/or experience as detailed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Certification: Persons hired or reassigned to Medical Records Administrator positions in the GS-0669 series in VHA must meet one of the following:

 Yes
 No


5.
Coding Certification Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
Mastery certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) or the American Association of Professional Coders (AAPC).To be acceptable for qualification, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level coding certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level coding certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies; however, current mastery level coding certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) - Physician-based (CCS-P), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), and Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).

OR,

 Yes
 No


6.
HIM Certification through AHIMA
Health Information Management (HIM) Certification. Higher-level health information management certification is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of HIM certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).

OR,

 Yes
 No


7.
Health Data Analyst Certification through AHIMA
This is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must certify mastery in health data analysis. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of health data analyst certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current health data analyst certification includes Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA).

**NOTE - HIMs Certification is required for all positions above the full performance level.**

 Yes
 No


8.
GS-5, Medical Records Administration Specialist
Experience and Education: None beyond basic requirements.

 Yes
 No


9.
GS-7, Medical Records Administration Specialist
Experience:
In addition to the basic requirements, at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, GS-5.

OR,
Education (Advanced Entry-Level Placement): Applicants who meet the GS-5 grade level may be appointed at the GS-7 grade level, if they possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in a major field of study in health information management, with an exemplary academic record as demonstrated by:

 A 3.0 or higher point average (GPA) out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B" or better), as recorded on their official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; or ii. A 3.5 GPA or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field of study, or the required courses completed in the major field of study during the final two years of curriculum. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA)s:
 Knowledge of current classification systems, such as International Classification of Diseases, Current Procedural Terminology, and the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS).
 Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) with medical center staff, patients, and external entities.
 Ability to use data collection and analytical techniques for purposes of review, quality control, studies and analysis [of health information].
 Ability to utilize computer applications with varied functions to produce a wide range of reports, to abstract records, collect and analyze data and present results in various formats
 Ability to work independently, adapt to shifting priorities, and meet deadlines.
 I have the basic requirements and at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level, GS-5. In addition, I can demonstrate the required knowledge, skills
 My experience and/or education support that I have and meet all the requirements for Advanced Entry Level Placement.
 My experience and/or education do not support that I have the basic requirements, experience with the knowledge skills and abilities and/or Advanced Entry Level Placement


10.
GS-9, Medical Records Administration SpecialistExperience:
At least 1 year of experience at the next lower grade level, GS-7 that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics described at that level.

OR,

Education: Education equivalent to 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's [degree] or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information management.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA)s:

 Knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to health information management and health records.
 Ability to provide technical advice and [guidance] on health information [management practices.
 Skill in extracting data from various sources and analyzing health information to create reports.
 Skill in researching,] interpreting, and [applying] health information management guidelines.
 Knowledge of performance and process improvement techniques to develop new or improved solutions in health information management.
 I have the experience and the knowledge, skills and abilities(KSA's) required for a GS-9, Medical Records Administrator.
 I have the education required for a GS-9, Medical Records Administrator.
 I do not have the experience with the knowledge, skills and abilities and/or the education for the GS-9 Medical Records Administrator.


11.
GS-11, Medical Records Administration Specialist
Experience: 1 year [creditable] experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates all of the KSAs described at that level.

OR,

Education: Education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA)s:

 Skill in [performance] and process improvement [techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management.
 Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations.
 Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
 Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management.
 Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.
 I have the experience and the knowledge, skills and abilities required for the GS-11 Medical Records Administrator.
 I have the education required for the GS-11 Medical Records Administrator.
 I do not have the experience with the knowledge, skills and abilities and/or the education required for the GS-11 Medical Records Administrator.


Resume Reminder - Your resume (and 2850c) must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) *Note: Should you be contacted for an interview you must have the responses to the following KSA's noted on the vacancy announcement prior to the interview.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙