Position Title
Operations Specialist
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
ADLP-605-27-13082960-MP
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce? For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No
3.
Do you currently work as a Federal employee with the Department of Commerce ? To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site that verify your current employment with the Department of Commerce.
 Yes
 No
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No
2.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No
3.
How did you learn about this position?
 College or University
 Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
 Conference or Meeting
 Professional Organization
 Job Fair
 Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
 USAJOBS search
 NIST Careers website
 LinkedIn
 Facebook
 Twitter
 None of the above
 Other
4.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
 RecruitMilitary Career Fair
 Maryland School Week (Howard Community College, UMD, and Towson)
 Biomedical Engineering Society 2026 Annual Meeting
 Colorado School Week (CU Denver, Colorado School of Mines, and Community College of Denver)
 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Annual Meeting
 Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Conference
 Student Veterans of America 19th Annual NatCon
 CyberCorps Scholarship for Service Career Fair
 Maryland School Week (Frederick Community College, Montgomery College, and UMBC)
 Colorado School Week (Front Range Community College, Metro State University, and CU Boulder)
 National Science Teaching Association's National Conference on Science Education
 American Chemical Society Spring Meeting
 RecruitMilitary Career Fair
 APS Global Physics Summit 2027
 Symposium on Data Science & Statistics (SDSS) Conference
 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC) Conference
 High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
 Service Academy Career Conference
 Disabled American Veterans (DAV) Career Fair
 DC School Week (Georgetown, Catholic University, GW)
 Denver School Week (Regis University, University of Denver, Red Rocks Community College)
 Handshake Job Posting
 LinkedIn Job Posting (NIST Careers)
 a NIST Talent Ambassador
ZA-343-3 Assessment
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 (ZA-II at NIST) or equivalent grade level as described in the vacancy announcement?&nbsp; The experience must be clearly demonstrated in your resume.
 Yes
 No
