Position Title
Surveying Technician (Temporary Seasonal)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
COTEMP-26-12854742-KC Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Jan 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Canon City, CO
 B. Craig, CO
 C. Dolores, CO
 D. Durango, CO
 E. Fort Collins, CO
 F. Grand Junction, CO
 G. Gunnison, CO
 H. Kremmling, CO
 I. Lakewood, CO
 J. Meeker, CO
 K. Monte Vista, CO
 L. Montrose, CO
 M. Silt, CO


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Only the first two pages of the resume will be used to determine eligibility/qualifications. The first two pages of my resume contains the required information to qualify for the position; I understand that any additional information will not be reviewed.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Seasonal Survey Technician position with the Federal government.


1.
I qualify for the GS-05 level because:

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-04 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited or pre-accredited institution (a) with major study in an appropriate field of surveying, engineering, construction, or industrial technology, or (b) that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as surveying, engineering, industrial technology, construction, physics, drafting, forestry, geography, navigation, cartography, physical science, or mathematics.
 I have an equivalent combination of the experience and education described above totaling 100%. Transcripts must be provided.
 I do not meet any of the above responses.


2.
I qualify for the GS-06 level because:

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-05 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 I have completed one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours) leading to such a degree and is related to the position. Transcripts must be provided.
 I have an equivalent combination of the experience and education described above totaling 100%. Transcripts must be provided.
 I do not meet any of the above responses.


3.
I qualify for the GS-07 level because:

 I do not meet any of the above responses.
 I have an equivalent combination of the experience and education described above totaling 100%. Transcripts must be provided.
 I have completed one full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours) leading to such a degree and is related to the position. Transcripts must be provided.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-06 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your education, training and/or experience applying Public Land Survey System (PLSS) cadastral survey procedures

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


5.
Indicate the types of surveys you have assisted in completing (select all that apply):

 A. Public Land Survey System (PLSS) Original surveys.
 B. Public Land Survey System (PLSS) Dependent and/or independent resurveys.
 C. Metes and bounds surveys of irregular tracts of lands.
 D. Public Land Survey System (PLSS) Subdivision of section surveys.
 E. Water boundary surveys.
 F. Resurveys of mineral surveys.
 G. Geodetic control surveys.
 H. None of the above.


6.
I perform the following tasks related to surveying (select all that apply):

 A. Simple arithmetic calculations.
 B. Recorded readings called out by others.
 C. Made simple traverse surveys using compass and tape.
 D. Measured angles, distances, and differences in elevation between stations.
 E. Recorded complete and detailed survey notes.
 F. Performed fundamental trigonometry and algebra calculations.
 G. Computed closures, inverses, and proportional segments for restoring.
 H. Tested, adjusted, or repaired surveying instruments.
 I. Driving stakes and cutting brush.
 J. Performed orienteering with magnetic hand compass and topographic maps.
 K. None of the above.


7.
Indicate the survey technician tasks you have performed related to compilation of survey data for graphic presentation (select all that apply):

 E. None of the above.
 D. Use computer/plotter/digitizer or other drafting tools to prepare graphics displays for use in planning survey data collection strategies.
 C. Collect coordinates by digitizing and operating interactive programs for computing the positions of corners from topographic maps.
 B. Compute geographic coordinates of Public Land Survey corners by using software programs to perform survey closures, adjustments and create, combine and/or store files in a data base environment.
 A. Analyze and abstract survey data obtained from survey plats, master title plats, survey index, quad maps and field notes to draw relationship diagrams.


8.
I perform the following responsibilities as a survey party leader (select all that apply):

 A. Plan the field procedures to be followed in the execution of surveys.
 B. Direct the activities for other surveying technicians and aides.
 C. Set the pace for the crew, maintain discipline, and ensure that prescribed survey procedures are followed.
 D. Establish work priorities and provide guidance to crew members on safe work methods.
 E. Ensure applicable safety equipment and devices are available and used.
 F. Make administrative arrangements for the survey such as sufficient proper supplies and equipment and approval of anticipated overtime.
 G. Prepare administrative reports on progress, time and attendance, vehicle usage, maintenance, and travel costs.
 H. None of the above.


9.
I have used topographic maps to research the following information for cadastral survey purposes (select all that apply):

 A. Identify township and range.
 B. Find corner position locations.
 C. Locate map identification numbering system.
 D. Locate elevation and triangulation station identification.
 E. Scale latitude and longitude.
 F. Find best transportation routes.
 G. None of the above.


10.
Indicate all survey equipment that you have operated. (select all that apply):

 A. Sighting surveying instruments such as transits, level land alidades.
 B. Electronic distance measuring equipment.
 C. Data Collector.
 D. Global Positioning System Receiver.
 E. Used tools to mark bearing trees and metal corner monuments.
 F. Rod and/or prism pole.
 G. Other - survey equipment not listed above.
 H. None of the above.


11.
Select the statement that best describes your education, training and/or experience preparing plots, drafts or sketches from surveying field notes.

 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.


12.
Select the statement that best describes your experience with office computer software.

 I use and am proficient in the use of a variety of office computer software, to include most the features in word processing, spreadsheet, and other applications.
 I use and am proficient in the use of most of the features in one to two basic office computer software, such as in word processing, spreadsheet, and other applications.
 I use and am proficient in the use of most features associated with a word processing software application (e.g., mail merge, tables, database sorting, etc.).
 I use a word processing software application for basic typing.
 I have little to no experience with office computer software.


13.
Identify the tasks you have been responsible for that require knowledge of surveying mathematics (select all that apply):

 A. Run a traverse around a closed figure to get closure.
 B. Run a traverse around a closed figure to compute area.
 C. Convert from one unit of measurement to another.
 D. Compute latitude and longitude from State plane coordinates.
 E. Subdivide a section.
 F. Subdivide a lotted section.
 G. Proportion lost corner positions.
 H. Reduce static GPS data.
 I. Inverse between coordinate pairs.
 J. None of the above.


14.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to operate four-wheel drive vehicles off- road.

 I have routinely operated four-wheel drive vehicles off-road for recreation.
 I have routinely operated four-wheel drive vehicles off-road as a regular part of a job.
 I have completed off-road four-wheel drive vehicle training.
 I have never operated a four-wheel drive vehicle off-road.


15.
I have safely operated 4-wheel ATVs in rugged terrain.

 Yes.
 No.


16.
I have safely operated motor vehicles in inclement weather and over rugged terrain.

 Yes.
 No.


17.
I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application maybe shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s)within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI.

 Yes.
 No.


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙