Position Title
Supervisory Procurement Analyst
Agency
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Announcement Number
OCAE-IMP-12954093-26-KRV Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Select the appropriate eligibility item(s) based on the below recruitment considerations.

Merit Promotion: You will only receive consideration (if eligible) under competitive merit promotion procedures if you select any of the following eligibilities: CTAP, CISA Wide (Status Only) (CISA Wide).

Non-Competitive: You will only receive consideration (if eligible) under non-competitive procedures if you select CISA Non-Competitive (CISA Non-Comp).


1.
(CISA) Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current surplus or displaced Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Federal civilian employee?

If yes, confirm the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; and
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; and
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of the following:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, notice of proposed removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside the local commuting area (e.g., a directed reassignment or a change in duty station), Certification of Expected Separation or other official agency certification or notification indicating that the employee's position is surplus (for example, a notice of position abolishment or a notice of eligibility for discontinued service retirement); AND
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (Name of Position's Organization is "CISA" in block 22); and
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from CISA that shows your current promotion potential; AND
Latest performance appraisal including your rating.
For more information, review the Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


2.
CISA (Competitive) Employees - Are you a current Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who has never held the full performance level (or equivalent) of the position being announced? 

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action that reflects the following:
Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (Name of Position's Organization is "CISA" in block 22); and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
NOTE: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include appointment/conversion, with-in grade/range increases and promotion actions).  While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time-In-Grade.  Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time-In-Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
CISA (Non-Competitive) Employees - Are you a current Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position who holds or has previously held the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential (or equivalent) of the position being announced? 

Promotion potential (also referred to as full performance level - FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action that reflects the following:
Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (Name of Position's Organization is "CISA" in block 22); and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34); and
Reflects the highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50)
NOTE: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include appointment/conversion, with-in grade/range increases and promotion actions). While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time-In-Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time-In-Grade.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions. You may choose to opt-in to having your information shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies when applying for this position. If an agency requests a list of applicants referred for selection consideration (i.e., certificate), and you are on that list, you will be notified. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

Do you provide your consent to having your name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions?

 I consent to having my name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by CISA. I opt-out of having my name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies.


2.
For qualification determinations and to receive full consideration for relevant experience, your resume must contain complete information and support your question responses. Be clear and specific when describing your work history since human resources cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.

Your resume MUST not exceed 2-pages in length and include the following:
Full Legal Name
Phone Number
Email Address
Work history (which includes Job Titles and Employer)
Detailed description of your job-related qualifications (including tasks performed)
Start and end dates of employment with the month and year (e.g., MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to Present)
Total hours worked per week for each job listed.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, your resume MUST also include the following for all Federal positions you have held:
Pay Plan/Band (e.g., GS, WG, etc.)
Occupational series (e.g., 201, 301, 2210, etc.)
Grade level (e.g., 5, 9, 13, etc.)
For military service, your resume MUST also include your rank and/or pay grade (e.g., O-03 (Captain/Lieutenant), E-5 (Sergeant/Petty Officer Second Class), etc.).

If the pay plan/band, occupational series, grade level, and/or rank/pay grade are not provided, it may result in an ineligible determination.

Do NOT include the following types of information in your resume:
Photographs
Social media links (e.g., LinkedIn)
Personal information, such as date of birth, social security number (SSN), gender, religious affiliation, etc.
Classified or government sensitive information
Inappropriate material or content
If your resume contains prohibited information as listed above, it will result in an ineligible determination, and you WILL NOT receive consideration for this position.

Do you verify that your resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, includes all required information, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above?
 Yes, I verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above.
 No, I am not willing to verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, or may contain prohibited information as listed above. I understand my application may be deemed insufficient and I may not receive consideration for this position. I further understand that if my resume contains any prohibited information, it will result in my removal from consideration for this position.


3.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees.

In the last five years (from the closing date of this vacancy announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political appointee, Political Schedule A, Schedule C (confidential or policy-determining), or Non-Career or Limited appointee in the Senior Executive System (SES)? If yes, please provide appropriate documentation in your application package to provide proof of your current or most recent political appointment.


 Yes, I have held a political appointment within the last five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political appointment within the last five years.


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are amongst the best qualified for this position. It is important to note that all of your responses are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and or experience, you will be rated ineligible.



1.
Basic Requirement for 1102 series: Select the one statement that best describes the education or experience that you possess that demonstrates you meet the basic requirement for the position of Supervisory Procurement Analyst at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I complete all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position; AND a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I am eligible under the following exception: Exceptions: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade.
 I will need a waiver from the senior procurement executive of the agency, certifying that I possess significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision-making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience.
 I do not meet the basic requirements as outlined above.


2.
Specialized Experience: select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Procurement Analyst at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1.) Overseeing an organization's technical procurement activities with expert knowledge of the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR); 2.) Initiating effective solutions, actions, and methodologies to resolve issues; 3.) Advising contract teams and review work products throughout the procurement life cycle; AND 4.) Providing organizational oversight and compliance for contract specialists.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Selective Placement Factor: In addition to the basic requirement and minimum qualifications described above, you must meet one of the following requirement(s) to be considered qualified for the position.

Which of the following certifications do you hold?
 FAC-C (Professional) - Must upload certificate to be eligible for consideration.
 FAC-C Level III - Must upload certificate to be eligible for consideration.
 Department of Defense DAWIA Contracting Professional - Must upload certificate to be eligible for consideration.
 Department of Defense DAWIA Contracting Level III - Must upload certificate to be eligible for consideration.
 I do not have any of the certificates listed above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or, commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify to the accuracy of my application and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify to the accuracy of my application or continuing with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙