Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADispSvcs-26-12932191-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the basic DoD 1102 requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 I have received a Bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees; AND I have completed at least 24 semester/36 quarter hours (or the equivalent) in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management (this requirement can be obtained within the degree or in addition to the degree). Non DLA serviced applicants must submit transcripts. DLA applicants should ensure transcripts are on file in eOPF.
 I am a current civilian employee in DoD, who occupied a GS-1102 position or contracting officer position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold on or before September 30th, 2000.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Applying contracting principles, laws, statues, regulations and procedures applicable to procurement/contracting actions sufficient to procure and administer contracts for a variety of goods and services; Familiarity with federal contract methods and contract types which requires specialized knowledge of federal contract administration policy, procedures, techniques, and evaluation/control methods sufficient to coordinate prime and subcontractor performance on complex, long term contracts; Using negotiation techniques to meet and deal with representatives of private sector and with government experts or managers in order to procure assigned products/services and/or modify/terminate assigned products and contracts; and Communicating through written communications and discussions with vendors/customers.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙