Position Title
FAMILY PROGRAM SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13041702-AR-26-109 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E4 - E9, WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O3?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E4 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O3.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1 - O3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration? Experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess at least 1 year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Applicants must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management. Experience developing administrative procedures.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your professional experience advising leadership on quality of life or family programs, and your role in planning and implementing these programs. In your response, specifically detail your experience coordinating mobilization processes (pre-deployment, deployment, and post-deployment) and partnering with local community resource agencies (e.g., American Red Cross, health benefit administrators).


4.
Describe your experience developing and managing information and referral systems for a community or organization. Please provide examples of how you have conducted needs assessments to identify program requirements, and detail your experience conducting seminars, briefings, or training workshops to educate staff and community members on available benefits and programs.


5.
Describe your experience designing and managing a volunteer program. Your response should include your specific methods for recruiting key volunteer coordinators, designing and conducting volunteer training programs, tracking volunteer hours, and implementing volunteer recognition activities. If applicable, highlight your experience directly supporting Family Readiness Groups (FRGs) or similar organizational support teams.


6.
Describe your experience representing an organization's programs at conferences and official meetings. In your response, explain your experience providing technical interpretation of policies, conducting staff assistance visits to ensure compliance, and your specific role in preparing, explaining, and defending program budgets.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙