Position Title
IT Specialist (APPSW/CUSTSPT)
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-26-043-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
Have you reviewed the "Required Documents" section of the announcement and confirmed that all necessary materials have been submitted to ensure full consideration?

If your supporting documents and resume are illegible or do not provide the necessary information for the Human Resource Specialist and/or Subject Matter Expert to make a qualification determination, you may lose consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the IT Specialist (APPSW/CUSTSPT) position located in in the Office of the Chief Information Officer at the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC). You will be evaluated on your responses to the questionnaire; then we will compare your responses against your resume and supporting documentation. If you rate yourself higher than is supported by your application materials, your responses may be adjusted and/or you may be excluded from consideration for this position. Please Note: Your resume MUST clearly identify the dates that support this experience (month/year); as well as the number of hours per week for each position.


1.
This position is open to current permanent employees of U.S. International Trade Commission. Please indicate below whether you are presently employed by the USITC.

 Yes, I am a current USITC employee.
 No, I am not a current USITC employee.


To qualify for the IT Specialist (APPSW/CUSTSPT) position, applicants must have at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) to meet the specialized experience requirements. You are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your most recent non-Award Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your status.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a IT Specialist (APPSW/CUSTSPT) GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time experience equivalent to GS-14 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) to meet the specialized experience requirements. Specialized experience at this level includes 1.) Leading complex IT service delivery initiatives independently at the enterprise level to optimize system performance and ensure mission-critical availability for agency operations. 2.) Developing advanced SharePoint/enterprise solutions as a technical expert to improve collaboration, streamline workflows, and support senior leadership decision-making. 3.) Analyzing multi-platform cybersecurity risks and compliance requirements with minimal oversight to ensure adherence to federal standards and strengthen the agency’s security posture. 4.) Managing cross-functional technology modernization and integration projects as a senior project lead to deliver cost-effective enhancements that improve operational efficiency and user experience. AND 5.) Evaluating and advising on complex IT architecture, cloud services, and system enhancements as a senior subject-matter advisor to guide leadership decisions and ensure scalable, secure, and future-ready solutions.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


Your responses to the Announcement and Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.


3.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙