Position Title
Geographic Information System Specialist
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DE-26-12973052-CAWV-JM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 01, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
All US Citizens
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Lakewood, CO
 B. Crow Agency, MT
 C. Gallup, NM


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


Current or Former Federal Employees: Due weight will be given to performance appraisals and awards during the interview/selection process conducted by the hiring manager. If referred, all relevant documents including performance appraisals and awards submitted with your application package will be forwarded to the hiring official for review. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal, please submit an explanation as to why it is unavailable and attach as a document.


3.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP) or equivalent plan to improve my performance.
 Yes, I am on a plan to improve my performance.
 No, I am not on a plan to improve my performance.


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references appropriate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications at the GS-0301-7 Geographic Information System (GIS) Specialist Position. Your resume must support the response that you select. If qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. This experience includes work designing/managing geospatial databases including project quality control and/or research; collaborating with others in developing and/or implementing geospatial applications or data; presenting the organization’s technical and/or policy information in conference/meetings; assisting with planning and/or management activities.
 I have Superior Academic Achievement which included one of the following: 1) Class standing-applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class, based on completed courses; or (2) Grade-Point Average-applicants must have a grade point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (3) Election to membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society -membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision. In order to be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts to support this response.)
 I have successfully completed one full year of appropriate graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in a field of study directly related to the work of this position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts to support this response.)
 I have a combination of graduate level education (as defined in C above) and specialized experience (as defined in A above) when combined together meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications at the GS-0301-9 Geographic Information System Specialist (GIS) Position. Your resume must support the response that you select. If qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.

 I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-7 in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector). This experience includes implementing analytical techniques to resolve procedural and factual geospatial and GIS issues; apply layers of geographic data to produce spatial analysis and derivative maps to support land base integrity; conduct research to locate and obtain information from existing and historical records or databases; knowledge of appropriate database design principles in order to identify interrelationships within GIS data; ability to effectively communicate orally and in writing.
 I have a masters or equivalent graduate degree; OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.B or J.D., if related to this position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts to support this response.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and more than one year of graduate education as described in B when combined meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts to support this response.)
 None of the above describes my qualifications for this position, but I am eager to learn.


3.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications at the GS-0301-11 Geographic Information System Specialist Position. Your resume must support the response that you select. If qualifying based on education, you must submit a complete, legible copy of your college or university transcript(s) with your application to document academic achievements and receive credit.

 I have at least 1 year of full-time specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-09 in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector). This experience includes knowledge and understanding of the principles of cartography, geography, geospatial information systems & technology and the theoretical foundations and methods of geospatial technology and remote sensing sufficient to serve the future geospatial requirements relative to the technology and services to be made available.
 I have completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field of study that is directly related to the duties of this position. Note: Applicants who select this response must provide transcripts as verification of their education.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and more than 2 years of graduate education as described in B when combined together meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. Note: Applicants who select this response must provide transcripts as verification of their education.
 I do not have the experience as described in the above statements, but I am eager to learn.


4.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications at the GS-0301-12 Geographic Information System Specialist Position. Your resume must support the response that you select.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to at least the GS-11 in the Federal Service (obtained in either the public or private sector). This experience includes coordinating and providing specialized advice and guidance in cartography, geography, geospatial information systems and technology. This experience must demonstrate the following 1) researching, interpreting and applying geospatial theoretical and methodological practices; 2) identifying, obtaining and preparing documentation needed to plan, execute and record geospatial action; and 3) communicating policies and procedures both orally and in writing on geospatial transactions.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education describe above.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY: As previously explained, your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your experience. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Certification of Information Accuracy - If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration from this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


APPLICANT RESPONSIBILITY: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans or Indian preference documentation, assessment questions and answers, and SF 50s) is received and is accurate.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙