Position Title
Office Automation Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12814327 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 18, 2025 to Wednesday, December 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for Office Automation Clerk, NF-0326-02. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification.


1.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience with the operation of a personal computer.
 I have less than 1- year of experience with the operation of a personal computer
 I have between 1 - 2 years of experience with the operation of a personal computer
 I have 2+ years of experience with the operation of a personal computer
 I have no experience with the operation of a personal computer


2.
How many years of experience do you with policies, regulations, procedures, regulations, correspondence management and recording and transcribing of official minutes (includes typing, scanning, uploading, copying, printing, and editing documents?
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience as described above
 I have 2+ years of experience as described above
 I have no experience as described above


3.
How many years of experience do you have with creating reports, letters and/or memorandums?
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience as described above
 I have 2+ years of experience as described above
 I have no experience as described above


4.
How many years of documented experience do you possess with customer service management in a high demand environment using diplomacy and tact (including reception desk, answering multiline phone systems, information assistance, providing referral information)?
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience as described above
 I have 2+ years of experience as described above
 I have no experience as described above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙