Position Title
HELICOPTER FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR/EVALUATOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12977870-AR-26-162 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Army Aviation Support Facility 1
 AOC 2: NG Employees in the State Army Aviation Office (This includes AASF 1, AASF 2, and EAATS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


2.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


3.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


4.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


5.
Are you a Warrant Officer in the grade of CW2-CW4 in any branch of military service and are you willing to become a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility requirements for Dual Status technician positions in this occupation are based on the candidate's possession of Federal Aviation Administration pilot certificates -OR- appropriate military certifications, military ratings in the main-frame military aircraft of employment, and the required competencies (knowledge, skills, and abilities). An applicant must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one-year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level.

Do you have these required experiences?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 2 years working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, in military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Groups? Do you have competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation? Experience in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information? Experience in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings? Do you have experience in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments? Experience in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance? Do you have experience in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders? Experience in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙