Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12992093-26-EKO Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Albany, NY
 B. Bath, NY
 C. Buffalo, NY
 D. Canandaigua, NY
 E. Syracuse, NY


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


The following questions pertain to the Basic Requirements


BASIC EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENT: You must meet one of the following basic requirements below to be eligible for this position. Please respond to the appropriate statement below concerning the Basic Requirements for this Accountant position. NOTE: Due to the positive education requirement, transcripts MUST be submitted with your application (unofficial). Applications cannot be considered without appropriate transcripts. Also, all supporting documentation MUST be submitted in order for determination to be made as to meeting the Basic Requirements.


1.
Select the one statement below that best describes how you meet the basic requirement for this Accountant position.

 I have a bachelor's degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term accounting means accounting and/or auditing in this standard. Similarly, accountant should be interpreted, generally, as accountant and/or auditor.)
 I have a combination of education and experience: at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge? Your background must also include one of the following: a) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED); OR b) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; (COPY OF CERTIFICATE REQUIRED); OR c) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement above, provided that (a) you have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. (TRANSCRIPT AND FULL DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED)
 I do not have the education or combination of education and experience as described above.


Minimum Qualification Requirements: Select the ONE statement below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the specific qualification requirements for this position. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.


2.
For this Accountant, GS-7 position:

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-5) that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of an Accountant GS-7. Specialized experience is experience utilizing knowledge of accounting practices, methods, and techniques required to perform assignments using procedures and practices that are conventional and apply to most situations encountered; reviewing and processing accounting documents; assisting in maintaining, analyzing, and reconciling general ledgers and subsidiary legers; and assisting in preparing reports. NOTE: Resume(s) must clearly demonstrate the required experience. We will not make assumptions regarding experience.
 I have successfully completed one (1) full year of graduate education (18 semester hours is usually equivalent to one full year of study) at an accredited college or university in courses related to the field of accounting. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate-level education (beyond 18 semester hours) and specialized experience, as described above, which meet the total experience requirements for this grade level. The education portion must include graduate courses directly related to the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT (SAA): At the baccalaureate level in the course work detailed above. NOTE: Applicants who wish to apply under this provision must submit proof from their educational institution that they meet one of the criteria listed below. To qualify for SAA, applicants must have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree as described above under "Basic Requirements" and meet one of the following: 1) A grade-point average of "B" (a G.P.A. of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two (2) years of undergraduate study. 2) A grade-point average of "B+" (a G.P.A. of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two (2) years of undergraduate study. 3) Rank in the upper one-third (1/3) of your class in the college, university or major subdivision. 4) Membership in a national scholastic honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I have successfully completed one (1) full year of graduate education (18 semester hours is usually equivalent to one full year of study) at an accredited college or university in courses related to the field of accounting. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I do not have the experience or education as described in any of the above to meet the GS-07 qualification requirement.


3.
For this Accountant, GS-9 position:

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-7) in Federal service that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of an Accountant GS-9. Specialized experience includes performing general ledger accounting functions; performing reconciliations; creating and analyzing cost reports; and maintains cost ceiling control records. NOTE: Resume(s) must clearly demonstrate the required experience. We will not make assumptions regarding experience.
 I have successfully completed a master's degree or two (2) full years of graduate education (18 semester hours is usually equivalent to one full year of study) at an accredited college or university in courses related to the field of accounting. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate-level education (beyond 18 semester hours) and specialized experience, as described above, which meet the total experience requirements for this grade level. The education portion must include graduate courses directly related to the work of this position.
 I do not have the experience or education as described in any of the above to meet the GS-09 qualification requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙