Position Title
Supervisory Auditor (Performance) - Temporary Detail Position NTE 120 days
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
13016690-BSM-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current OIG Employee - Are you a current permanent career or career-conditional, competitive status Department of Justice Office of Inspector General (OIG) employee?
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit:

•    A copy of your most recent career or career-conditional SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), AND
•    A copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than your most recent SF-50), AND
•    If applying for a higher grade, a copy of an SF-50 which clearly demonstrates you meet the 52-week time-in-grade requirements (e.g., Promotion with an effective date more than one (1) year old, Within Grade Increase at the highest grade held, SF-50 at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one (1) year old).
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.)1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
To qualify at the GS-15 level, applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience at least equivalent to a GS-14 position that is in or directly related to planning and conducting technically complex and comprehensive performance audits and reviews. Specialized experience at this level includes:

- Comprehensive knowledge, understanding, and application of generally accepted government auditing standards as prescribed by the Government Accountability Office, generally accepted accounting principles, and Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government.
- Experience in leading complex, multi-location (organization-wide) audits, evaluations, assessments, and/or reviews at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization. This work includes clarifying project goals, obtaining stakeholder buy-in, setting and tracking key milestones, managing project risks, recommending appropriate project team members, reporting as appropriate to keep stakeholders involved, and meeting project completion milestones. (Your resume must reflect where, when, and how you gained this experience.)
- Producing high-quality finished products and reports; preparing and presenting thorough briefings to high-level officials.
- Identifying and assessing risk within programs, functional units, and organizations and conceptualizing well-researched, actionable audit proposals that address high-risk or critical matters expected to benefit from independent oversight.

Do you have the requisite specialized experience described above and is it identifiable in your submitted resume?

 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirements for Performance Auditors

Do you possess the below positive education requirement? Select the option that describes how you meet this requirement.

- Degree in Auditing or in a related field such as Business Administration, Finance, Public Administration, and Accounting;

OR

- A combination of education and experience - at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: a certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; or completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.

Additional related and accepted degrees include but are not limited to:

*Business-Related: Communications/Public Relations, Economics, International Business/Studies, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology. *Government-Related: Criminal Justice/Criminology; Diplomacy/International Policy, Affairs, or Relations; National/Homeland Security; Forensics; Government/History; Intelligence Analysis; Law/Legal Studies; Political Science; Public Management; Public Policy; Security Policy.*Technically Related: Computer Science, Cybersecurity, Engineering, Human Resources, Information Technology/Systems, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Languages/Linguistics, Logistics, Management Information Systems, Mathematics/Statistics/Data Science, Sciences (anthropology, biology, chemistry, etc.), and Supply Chain Management, etc.
 A degree in Auditing or in a related field such as Business Administration, Finance, Public Administration, Accounting, and the accepted degrees listed, OR
 A combination of education and experience - at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge AND a certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination, OR
 A combination of education and experience - at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge AND the completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hour.
 No, I do not meet the positive education requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙