Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Direct Hire)
Agency
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Announcement Number
JSC-26-DE-12938121-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
Please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.

NOTE: If you qualify for this position based on experience, your resume MUST show you have Information Technology (IT) experience demonstrating each of the four competencies as described in the "Qualifications" section of the job announcement: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication, and Problem Solving.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Supporting coordinating system monitoring activities, identifying operational issues, and directing timely resolutions that support safe and reliable mission or training operations; supporting analyzing operational data and updating requirements to improve procedures, tools, and system configurations that contribute to mission readiness; supporting efforts to troubleshoot complex technical issues, communicating impacts and recommended actions, and providing technical guidance that supports continuity of mission or training activities.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in one or more of fields of computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management, AND that required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Coordinating system monitoring activities, identifying operational issues, and directing timely resolutions that support safe and reliable mission or training operations; analyzing operational data and updating requirements to improve procedures, tools, and system configurations that contribute to mission readiness; leading efforts to troubleshoot complex technical issues, communicating impacts and recommended actions, and providing technical guidance that supports continuity of mission or training activities.
 I do not have the experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience in each of the four competencies described in the job announcement AND I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Leading the development, integration, or improvement of mission or training systems, including defining requirements, resolving high-impact issues, and guiding teams through design or operational decisions; conducting advanced analysis of mission, operational, or system performance data to inform organizational strategies, optimize procedures or tools, and drive decisions affecting mission readiness; providing technical leadership for cross disciplinary teams, including coordinating complex workflows, delivering high level recommendations to management, and communicating operational or system needs.
 I do not have the experience described above.


WRITTEN INTERVIEW INSTRUCTIONS:
This technical assessment consists of scenario-based questions that ask you to describe your technical experience in three (3) areas.

Response Requirements
For each question, give a specific, factual example from your actual work or education experience. Focus your response on the situation, your actions, and the outcome. Ensure your responses are clear and concise. Each response will be limited to 700 characters or less (including spaces).

Verification Requirements
For each response, you are required to identify a supervisor who can verify the experience you described. You will provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who is familiar with the specific situation in your response.

Assessment Evaluation
Your responses will be reviewed and the results of the evaluation will determine whether you advance to the next step in the hiring process, so ensure your responses accurately reflect your capabilities and most relevant experiences.

Assessment Integrity
When completing this assessment, use your own words and work independently. Do NOT use outside help or assistance from others, and do NOT consult artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Copilot, or similar platforms and applications. Your responses must reflect your own knowledge, experience, and writing.


4.
Written Interview Question 1: Describe a situation where you were responsible for monitoring and analyzing the performance of a flight, ground, or data system supporting operations. What types of data (e.g., telemetry, health/status, or operational data) did you evaluate, how did you identify and diagnose issues or trends, and what actions did you take to coordinate resolution or recommend system or process improvements? What was the outcome in terms of system reliability, mission readiness, or operational efficiency? 

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


4a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


5.
Written Interview Question 2: Describe a specific situation where you had to evaluate operational needs or system performance and develop a plan or recommendation that supported longer-term mission or organizational objectives. What factors did you consider when setting priorities, how did you assess potential risks and opportunities, and how did you ensure your approach aligned with mission readiness or operational goals? What was the outcome of your plan or recommendation? 

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


5a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


6.
Written Interview Question 3: Describe a specific situation where you independently applied your technical knowledge to evaluate complex information and support a mission or operational decision. What technical data or information did you review, how did you assess its validity or implications, and how did you use your expertise to develop a recommendation or advise others on the appropriate course of action? What was the outcome of your input? 

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


6a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


Certification


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙