Position Title
Community Planning and Development Specialist
Agency
Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12918800 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. San Francisco, CA
 D. Denver, CO
 E. Washington, DC
 F. Jacksonville, FL
 G. Miami, FL
 H. Atlanta, GA
 I. Honolulu, HI
 J. Chicago, IL
 K. New Orleans, LA
 L. Boston, MA
 M. Kansas City, MO
 N. Newark, NJ
 O. New York, NY
 P. Greensboro, NC
 Q. Philadelphia, PA
 R. San Juan, PR
 S. Columbia, SC
 T. Fort Worth, TX
 U. Houston, TX
 V. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


6.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


8.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


9.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


10.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


11.
Are you a current HUD employee?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the GS-11, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:

- Supporting a community development or economic development program at the federal, state, or local government or at a lending institution or non-profit organization; AND
- Reviewing, and giving feedback on program or organizational policies and procedures; AND
- Assisting with monitoring community or economic development activities.
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related
OR
You may qualify by a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate education in excess of the first 2 years may be combined with experience. Options for qualifying based on a combination will be identified in the online questions.


1.
For the GS-11, select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M. if related. Qualifying education must be in a field related to this position
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. Only graduate education in excess of the first 2 years may be combined with experience.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


For the GS-9, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
- Applying program or organizational policies and procedures; AND
- Tracking data on programs or special project outcomes to ensure that program requirements and goals are met.
OR
You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related
OR
You may qualify by a combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours may be combined with experience. Options for qualifying based on a combination will be identified in the online questions.


3.
For the GS-09, select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree OR I have a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B or J.D. if related. Qualifying education must be in a field related to this position
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours may be combined with experience.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above


4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙