Position Title
Prosthetic Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12968975-26-OC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Prosthetics Representative position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating. Please read each question carefully and answer truthfully.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Citizenship.

Citizen of the United States. After a determination is made that it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens, necessary personnel may be appointed on a temporary basis under authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405 without regard to the citizenship requirements of 38 U.S.C. 7402 or any other law prohibiting the employment of or payment of compensation to a person who is not a citizen of the United States. Candidates must meet all other requirements for the grade level and position concerned.

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education.

NOTE: You MUST demonstrate the experience on your resume, specifically. We will NOT make assumptions. Individual must meet at least one of the requirements below.

(1) Experience. One year of creditable experience that demonstrates: Knowledge of basic anatomy and medical terminology; knowledge of accounting methods; ability to research, analyze, comprehend, and apply decisions; basic knowledge of inventory management procedures; ability to use computer software packages for word processing, spreadsheet development, and database management; and ability to work independently and as a member of a team; or

(2) Education. A bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours could include but is not limited to any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree; or

(3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.

Do you met one of the above experience and education requirements?
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision Notice:

All persons employed in VHA as a Prosthetic Representative on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:

(1) Employees grandfathered into the GS-0672 occupational series as prosthetic representatives may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.

(2) Prosthetic Representatives who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.

(3) Employees who are retained as a Prosthetic Representative under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a prosthetic representative. Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the United States must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials, and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to experience gained in conventional United States programs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Physical Requirements:

Pre-placement and periodic physical examinations are required for hybrid occupations to ensure workers are placed in positions where they can perform the essential functions of their job including their physical, mental and emotional capacities, without endangering their health or the health of their co-workers. See VA Directive and Handbook 5019.

Do you agree to a pre-employment physical examination?
 Yes
 No


4.
English Language Proficiency:

Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English. See Chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to the basic requirements, you must also meet grade level requirements.

GS-5 Prosthetic Representative (Entry Level)

Experience. None beyond the basic requirement

Assignment.  Assignments at this grade level are entry level trainee in nature where the individual receives developmental assignments designed to build upon the base knowledge, skills, and abilities. At this level, the Prosthetic Representative receives training and instruction to develop proficiency in essential occupational tasks. The work is performed under close supervision. 

Do you meet the GS 5 grade level requirements?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-7 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental Level)

Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level, directly related to the position to be filled.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

1. Ability to understand and apply processes, procedures, regulations, and laws as it applies to purchasing and the provision of prosthetic items/services.
2. Ability to coordinate multiple requests for durable medical equipment (DME), including repairs, services, and benefits.
3. Ability to act as a liaison with and work effectively with health care providers, patients, caregivers and vendors to ensure that the most appropriate device and services are received timely.
4. Ability to monitor contractors and vendors for compliance with contract requirements

Assignment. At this level, responsibilities include interaction with Veterans, caregivers, and clinical staff by answering questions related to benefit programs such as automobile adaptive equipment, home improvement and structural alterations, and clothing allowance programs. Assignments include developmental duties involving more complex work performed under supervision. The Prosthetic Representative addresses questions about the provision of prosthetic items, home care equipment, benefits or service issues, to include discharge planning requirements. The employee ensures requests for items or services are complete and received in accordance with established timeframes. Work may include authorizing and preparing purchase orders for a wide variety of prosthetic and orthotic devices, medical supplies and home medical equipment and repairs. For orders exceeding the micro-purchase threshold, they may conduct market research, price history review, complete justification and approval, and submit to the contracting department. They ensure correct Healthcare Common Procedure Codes are entered into the appropriate database(s). They ensure surgical implants are Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved; shipped to retain product integrity; delivered to correct location; and received before for the surgical procedure. They collaborate with clinical staff when devices and equipment requires repair or replacement and takes necessary actions to resolve issues.
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-9 Prosthetic Representative (Developmental level)

Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled

OR,

Education. Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited educational institution AND at least 24 semester hours in course work related to health care, public administration, or business. The 24 semester hours may include, but is not limited to, any combination from the following fields: occupational therapy, physical therapy, kinesiotherapy, social work, psychology, prosthetics, orthotics, respiratory therapy, assistive technology, business law, leadership, healthcare, public administration, or business management. This course work may have been completed within the degree or in addition to the degree.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

1. Knowledge of methods to identify trends and causation factors sufficient to analyze prepared data and gather information to inform and advise management.
2. Ability to organize, prioritize, and monitor actions to ensure timeliness.
3. Ability to understand and articulate the benefits program options available. This includes communicating with patients, caregivers, health care providers and vendors.
4. Ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations.
5. Ability to work effectively with a clinical team and provide recommendations for prosthetic devices.

Assignment. The Prosthetic Representative works directly with Veterans and clinical teams to assist with applications for benefits related to benefit programs such as automobile adaptive equipment, home improvement and structural alterations, and clothing allowance programs. The employee ensures devices, equipment, and services, are based on the patient's rehabilitative and medical needs. They work closely with the treatment team in development of prescriptions and provide technical assistance and guidance to assist in planning and coordination to obtain equipment, services, and benefits. The Prosthetic Representative conducts home visits, in collaboration with other healthcare providers to determine if requested equipment is appropriate or can be installed in the home. They are familiar with national, VISN, and facility contracts that apply to Prosthetics and Sensory Aids Service (PSAS), and responsible for providing management with documentation pertaining to contract compliance issues or concerns. This includes working with clinical staff to create quality improvement reports. They work closely with the clinical teams to assist in identifying products available on contract that meet the medical needs of patients. Duties are typically performed independently with minimal supervision. Prosthetics representatives have knowledge and the ability to apply and educate others about national, VISN, and facility directives, policies, procedures and regulations. They analyze and interpret data for trends and provide guidance to improve quality assurance, policies, and procedures.
 Yes
 No


8.
GS-11 Prosthetic Representative (Full Performance Level)

Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level, that is directly related to the position to be filled.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

1. Ability to work independently to set priorities; delegate tasks; meet multiple deadlines; analyze organizational problems; and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity.
2. Ability to work with a team, to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload; and monitoring the accuracy, status and progress of work.
3. Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, both orally and in writing, to meet program objectives. This may include preparing reports in various formats and presenting data to various organizational levels.
4. Ability to assist in staff development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
5. Ability to act as liaison between staff to resolve informal employee complaints and concerns.
6. Knowledge of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in specialized programs and knowledge of those specific program requirements. 

Assignment. Work at the full performance level is performed independently and with minimal supervision. Prosthetic Representatives provide oversight, administration and coordination for a number of services including but not limited to procurement, clinical services, customer service/reception, inventory management associated with medical, rehabilitative, and durable medical equipment devices; home durable medical equipment delivery/setup/installation; visual or hearing devices; assistive technology; and orthotics/prosthetics. The Prosthetic Representative assists with management and oversight of contract programs such as home oxygen, durable medical equipment, and eyeglasses. They are responsible for the administration of benefit programs, such as home and structural alterations, automobile adaptive equipment, and clothing allowance. The Prosthetic Representative is aware of rehabilitative treatment goals and strategies that are unique to patients in order to obtain specialized service programs as stated in paragraph 2.g. above. When non-contract products are required, the Prosthetic Representative assists the clinical team in developing appropriate justifications, to ensure access to the most clinically appropriate products and services when such as product functionality not available with contract products to ensure access to the most clinically appropriate products and services. The Prosthetic Representative works directly with Veterans and clinical teams to assist with applications and answer questions related to benefit programs that cannot be handled by lower level employees. They provide recommendations to the treatment team regarding the development of prescriptions and provide technical assistance and guidance on planning and coordination efforts, to address complex patient medical and rehabilitative needs for equipment, services, and benefits. They develop and monitor quality improvement metrics to ensure the program is functioning in accordance with all established guidelines. They have a full working knowledge of national, VISN, and facility contracts that apply to PSAS and responsible for providing management with documentation pertaining to contract compliance issues or concerns. This includes working with clinical staff to make recommendations for improvements based on quality improvement reports. At this level, employees may serve as the lead for the prosthetic program providing oversight of specific services within PSAS. They may assist with oversight duties including making work assignments, monitoring work flow, providing input on performance, resolving daily workplace issues, and maintaining efficient flow of patient care. They may provide training to PSAS staff and other medical center employees, students and/or trainees.
 Yes
 No


9.
Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminders - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:1. - Job title2. - Duties (be as detailed as possible...we will NOT make assumptions)3. - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)4. - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)5. If you are selected, you may be required to submit additional information regarding your level of knowledge, skills and abilities required for this position.6. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume.7. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.8. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title.9. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙