Position Title
Criminal Investigator
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OPR-IMP-12974662-KMW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Do you claim Veteran's Preference?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


3.
Instruction: As a CBP employee, answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration.  However, if you only claim promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position. 

As a current CBP employee, have you held a permanent position with CBP or in the Federal competitive service (or in a merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement) with the promotion potential or equivalent of the position noted in the announcement?  Please indicate your response below.  

Promotion potential (also known as full performance level or FPL) means the highest level/grade that can be achieved in the career ladder progression of the position that is held on a permanent basis. Details and Temporary Promotions are not creditable towards meeting these requirements. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate that you meet promotion potential. Recommended SF-50s include promotions and step increases (within grade increases).  SF-50s should reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24); AND
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34); or if with another merit system which OPM has an interchange (Position Occupied field is 2 in Block 34); AND
Promotion Potential is equivalent to or higher than the grade level being announced.  This would be in the remarks section of your initial appointment SF-50 or the SF-50 of the highest grade held.
Examples: 
You currently hold a GS-09 position with promotion potential to the GS-12.  The progression is GS-09, GS-11, and GS-12.  You hold a position with the promotion potential of a GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You are temporarily promoted to a GS-13 position. The temporary promotion is not a permanent position, and your promotion potential is your current position of GS-12.
Your current position is a GS-12. You previously held a GS-13 position on a permanent basis.  GS-13 is considered the highest promotion potential you have held.
Further guidance on how to read your SF-50 can be found at USAJOBS Help Center | Reading your SF-50 to determine your service and appointment type.


 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When U.S. Customs and Border Protection completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 A. I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 B. I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


2.
I understand that if selected for this position, I will be on a time-limited temporary promotion or reassignment and may be returned to my permanent or a similar position prior to the not-to-exceed date.
 Yes
 No


3.
Select a location preference from the list below. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for more information.
 A. Seattle, Washington
 B. Bellingham, Washington
 C. McAllen, Texas
 D. Laredo, Texas
 E. El Paso, Texas
 F. Del Rio, Texas
 G. Brownsville, Texas
 H. Alpine, Texas
 I. San Juan, Puerto Rico
 J. New York, New York
 K. Champlain, New York
 L. Buffalo, New York
 M. Newark, New Jersey
 N. Detroit, Michigan
 O. Bangor, Maine
 P. Indianapolis, Indiana
 Q. Miami, Florida
 R. Washington, D.C.
 S. San Francisco, California
 T. Los Angeles, California
 U. El Centro, California
 V. Yuma, Arizona
 W. Tucson, Arizona
 X. Sierra Vista, Arizona


4.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position for any individual who holds or within the previous 52 weeks held a General Schedule (GS) position under nontemporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service in the executive branch. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level?

If you are a current federal employee or former federal employee within the past 52 weeks, submit one or more SF-50s that support your selected response below showing you meet or are exempt from time-in-grade requirements.
 Yes, I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 grade level (or equivalent).
 No, I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-13 level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-14 grade level (or equivalent).
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current or former federal employee, I am not or was not (within the past 52 weeks) under the GS pay scale.


5.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-14 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes conducting complex and sensitive criminal, civil and/or administrative investigations involving alleged misconduct, criminal activity, and/or corruption. Allegations include but are not limited to extortion, collusion, conspiracy, forgery, bribery, embezzlement, theft, or other violations; Leading and conducting sensitive and complex criminal investigations involving senior public officials or multi-national corporations having continued political or media interest: Investigating individuals, businesses, employees, and criminal organizations that represent a significant threat to U.S. national security through the corruption or attempted corruption, of agency personnel and programs; Mentoring and assisting in the professional development of less experienced agents by serving as a field training agent or facilitating on-the-job training of newly hired criminal investigators, or existing criminal investigators requiring additional development or technical assistance; Researching and review policies, regulations, and laws; evaluates investigative techniques; advises on operational issues; and develops or updates policies based on changing requirements.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


6.
Provisions of Public Laws 93-350 and 100-238 allow the imposition of a maximum age for initial appointment to a primary Law Enforcement Officer position within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). In accordance with DHS Management Directive 251-03, the "day before an individual's 37th birthday" is the maximum age for original appointment to a position as a primary law enforcement officer within DHS. In accordance with Department of Homeland Security Directive 251-03, unless the below criteria applies, you must meet this age requirement by the date of referral to the hiring manager.

Creditable law enforcement officer service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8401(36) (as a Customs and Border Protection Officer) on or after July 6, 2008, may be applied toward the maximum age requirement. This age restriction may not apply if you are currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) law enforcement position covered by Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).

Veterans Preference Eligibility: To ensure compliance with statutes pertaining to the appointment of preference eligible veterans as determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board in its recent decision of Isabella v. Dept. of State, the maximum age for original appointment articulated above shall not apply to the hiring of individuals entitled to veterans preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312. You must submit proof of Veteran's Preference (DD-214 Member 4 Copy) at the time of application.
Will you be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes
 No, but I have creditable federal civilian (not military) service under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c), Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), or creditable service on or after July 6, 2008 covered by Public Law 110-161 that may be applied toward the maximum age requirement.
 Not applicable. The age restriction does not apply to me because I am currently serving in a federal civilian (not military) position and the retirement covered under Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) or Title 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).
 Not Applicable. The age restriction does not apply because I am entitled to veterans’ preference eligibility under 5 U.S.C. § 3312.
 No, I will not be less than 37 years of age at the closing date of this announcement and DO NOT meet any of the exceptions listed above. I understand that this will remove me from receiving further consideration under this announcement.


7.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


8.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


9.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


10.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


11.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


Assessment 1
1.
The Criminal Investigator position requires the successful completion of the following pre-employment requirements:
Polygraph examination
Background investigation
Medical examination
Drug test
If you are not willing to complete these requirements then the agency recommends you exit the online job application and not proceed further.

Are you willing to complete the above pre-employment requirements?

 Yes
 No


2.
CBP is committed to a drug-free workplace. This position requires drug testing as part of the pre-employment process and requires random drug testing after you enter on duty. Note: Several states now allow recreational and medicinal use of marijuana. However, CBP does not permit the use of marijuana as it is still an illegal drug per Federal law. By submitting this application, you acknowledge and understand that you must successfully pass a drug test during the pre-employment process and that the Agency will remove you from consideration if you do not successfully pass the drug test. Additionally, should you enter on duty as an employee, you will be required to participate in random drug testing in accordance with the Agency's drug-free workplace policy. Do you wish to continue with your application?
 Yes
 No


The Anti-Border Corruption Act of 2010 requires all job applicants for law enforcement positions at U.S. Customs & Border Protection to receive a polygraph examination and a background investigation before being offered employment. Please read the following questions and answers carefully!


3.
Are you willing to undergo a polygraph examination for this position?

 Yes, I am willing to take a polygraph examination
 No, I am not willing to take a polygraph examination
 Not applicable, I am a current CBP Law Enforcement Officer (i.e., BPA, CBPO, AIA or MIA)


4.
Have you taken and FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last 12 months?
 No, I have NOT FAILED a CBP polygraph examination within the last 12 months.
 Yes, I have failed a CBP polygraph examination within the last 12 months.


PENALTIES FOR INACCURATE OR FALSE STATEMENTS: The U.S. Criminal Code (Title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally fire, do not grant a security clearance to, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms. Such actions remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely.


5.
Are you willing to undergo a background investigation for this position?

 Yes, I am willing to undergo a background investigation for this position
 No, I am not willing to undergo a background investigation for this position


FIREARM REQUIREMENT: This position requires that the incumbent meet initial and continuing qualifications in the use of firearms as outlined in the Gun Control Act of 1968, amended by the Lautenberg Amendment of 1996. An applicant whose background includes any of the following will be ineligible for consideration: 1) convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding one year; 2) has any outstanding warrants or is a fugitive from justice; 3) unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance; 4) adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to a mental institution; 5) illegally or unlawfully in the United States; 6) renounced U. S. citizenship; 7) subject to a court-ordered restraining (protection) order from harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner (spouse, former spouse, parent of applicant's child, individual who cohabitates or has cohabitated with the applicant), or child; or 8) convicted under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child.


6.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order?
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?

 Yes
 No


9.
Have you ever been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year?

 No, I have never been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year
 Yes, I have been convicted of a felony or crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year


10.
Have you ever lost your right to possess a firearm for any reason under Federal law?

 No, I have never lost my right to possess a firearm
 Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm but my right has been fully restored under Federal law
 Yes, I have lost my right to possess a firearm and my right has NOT been fully restored under Federal law


11.
Have you used (including injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed marijuana/THC, anabolic steroids, prescription drugs, or inhalants? Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation
 Never
 Yes, and I understand that I will be required to provide detailed information regarding this, and it will be taken into consideration during my background investigation


12.
Excluding above - Have you used (including but not limited to injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, etc.), experimented with, received, purchased, transferred, or distributed a Schedule I-V controlled substance? Examples of controlled substances include cocaine or crack cocaine (e.g, rock, freebase, etc.), hallucinogenics (e.g, LSD, PCP, mushrooms, peyote, mescaline, etc.), ketamine (e.g., special K, jet, etc.), narcotics (e.g., opium, heroin, etc.), stimulants (e.g., speed, crystal meth, ecstasy, etc.), Drug usage information will be taken into consideration during the background investigation.
 Never
 Yes, 0-3 Years Ago
 Yes, 3-7 Years Ago
 Yes, 7 or more years ago


13.
Prior to your 18th birthday did you enter the U.S. illegally and subsequently initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18?

 Yes, I initiated action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally but DID NOT initiate action to obtain legal status within 24 months after reaching age 18
 Not applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. PRIOR to my 18th birthday.


14.
After the age of 18, did you ever enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S. without legal immigration status?

 No, I did not enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 Yes, I did enter the U.S. illegally, use fraudulent or counterfeit documents to enter the U.S., or intentionally overstay an authorized period of admission to reside, work or attend school in the U.S.
 Not Applicable, I am a U.S. citizen OR I did not enter the U.S. illegally after my 18th birthday


15.
Have you ever been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18?
 No, I have never been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18.
 Yes, I have been removed or deported from the U.S. after the age of 18


16.
Are you currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.?
 No, I am not currently married to or living with any person(s) illegally residing in the U.S.
 Yes, I am currently married to or living with any person o(s) illegally residing in the U.S.


17.
Did you knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status?

 No, I did not knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status
 Yes, I did knowingly marry an undocumented noncitizen for the sole purpose of that individual obtaining legal immigration status


18.
Did you knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status?

 No, I did not knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status
 Yes, I did knowingly marry a U.S. citizen for the sole purpose of obtaining legal immigration status


19.
Have you ever intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)?
 No, I have never intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)
 Yes, I have intentionally harbored, concealed, transported or employed an undocumented noncitizen(s)


20.
Have you ever kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will?

 No, I have not kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will
 Yes, I have kidnapped or imprisoned an individual against his or her will


21.
Have you ever been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value?

 No, I have never been convicted of any crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value
 Yes, I have been convicted of a crime involving identity theft or the fraudulent use of a credit card including buying, selling, manufacturing, stealing or fraudulently using credit cards to obtain something of value


22.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997?

 No, I have not engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997
 Yes, I have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1997


23.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?

 No, I have not been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity
 Yes, I have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity


24.
Are you a current law enforcement officer who is currently under investigation for a use-of-force incident?
 No, I not a current law enforcement officer currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.
 Yes, I am currently holding a law enforcement position and am currently being investigated for a use-of-force incident.


25.
Have you ever been terminated from a law enforcement position because you were found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident?
 No, I have not been terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.
 Yes, I was terminated from a law enforcement position because I was found liable and/or guilty in a use-of-force incident.


26.
Have you ever deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography after the age of 18 (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18)?
 No, I have never deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).
 Yes, I have deliberately viewed, downloaded, purchased, possessed, sold, or distributed child pornography (defined as obscene images of a child or children under the age of 18).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙