Position Title
Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12923830-26-CS Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your ability to perform the duties of the position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your answers are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of your knowledge or skills as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please select only one letter for each item.


1.
Certification Requirement (Screen-Out): In accordance with Section 608 of the Clean Air Act, this position requires a current Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved Universal Certification. Applicants who do not meet his requirement are ineligible for further consideration. Copy of Certification required with application package.

 Yes
 No


2.
(Screen Out) Do you have the ability to do the work of an Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic without more than normal supervision in performing the full range of air conditioning and refrigeration equipment repair? Your resume should describe your ability to perform the duties of an Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic which includes but is not limited to: Experience performing the full range of air conditioning and refrigeration equipment repairs to include working as a journeyman in the installation, operation, repair and maintenance of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment; knowledge in the principles and theories of air conditioning, refrigeration and heat transfer; able to select, maintain and safely use the tools, measuring equipment, testing devices and instruments related to the heating, ventilation, air condition and refrigeration (HVAC/R) trade; repair, replace, install, and test various HVAC/R equipment and/or systems; able to read from blue prints and diagrams when performing tasks. Note: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position nd the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

 Yes
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙