Position Title
SUPERVISORY INTEGRATED PREVENTION COORDINATOR
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12860029 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a Master's degree or higher in behavioral science, social science, adult education, or related behavioral science field; or, a combination of college education and experience of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field; or, six years' appropriate experience equivalent to a major in one or more of the behavioral or social sciences?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 4 or more years of experience with prevention activities to include suicide prevention, family and interpersonal violence, sexual harassment, sexual assault, substance abuse, and health promotion?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years' experience do you have in applying a wide range of qualitative and quantitative measures and indicators for the assessment, restructuring and improvement of complex operations.
 I have 7+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 6 to 7 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 5 to 6 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years' experience do you have performing the full-range of supervisory duties (such as providing technical oversight of staff; directing and assigning work; conducting performance reviews; addressing potential disciplinary and/or performance issues; participating in staffing decisions; ensuring staff receives proper training; and supporting equal employment opportunity policies)?
 I have 7+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 6 to 7 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 5 to 6 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
How many years' experience do you have working with military community support programs?
 I have 4+ years’ experience with Navy support programs.
 I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙