Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST (T32, MERIT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13048635-AF-26-229 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard. (Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC. *



Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess either of the following:
- An Undergraduate and Graduate Education with a Major study in any of the following: quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position
OR
- at least 1 year specialized experience to at least next lower grade level of GS09? Specialized experience includes experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess experience in fields such as quality control, quality inspection, contracting and purchasing, supply and storage, industrial or production planning, research and engineering, maintenance, and test and evaluation that provided (1) familiarity with quality assurance or related work, (2) pertinent product or process knowledge and skill, (3) ability to interpret and apply contract requirements and engineering specifications, and (4) skill in dealing with others in person-to-person work relationships?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess experience that demonstrates a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas? Examples include: Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action; Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals; Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance.
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item.


6.
In detail, explain your experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of product or range of products involved, the manufacturing methods and techniques, special processes, test, and performance requirements; and skill in developing plans and programs.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


7.
Do you possess specialized experience providing technical direction to otherwise competent workers?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


8.
In detail, explain your experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found.


9.
In detail, explain your experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e., special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field.


10.
In detail, explain your experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibilities for the function required by Quality Assurance and the organization involved.


11.
In detail, explain your comprehensive knowledge of assigned aircraft and complex aircraft systems to include but not limited to electronic equipment and systems, manual and automatic flight controls, airframe, landing gear, pneudraulics, jet engine propulsion and associated systems, Aerospace Ground Equipment, Support equipment, and related test equipment.


12.
In detail, explain your knowledge of the techniques, documentation, and equipment used in the examination, classification, and maintenance of munitions assets and their components.


13.
In detail, explain your comprehensive knowledge of inspection and evaluation techniques, statistical methods, mathematics, production management, industrial management, and database management skills to perform root cause, deficiency, and trend analysis.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
Drill status and Full-time positions listed separately
Duties listed under each position held(be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
Employer's name and address
Supervisor's name and contact information
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
High school graduation date, if applicable
AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position. 


 Yes
 No


15.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙