Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13025326-26-CRS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Tucson, AZ
 B. Hines, IL
 C. Shawnee, KS
 D. Chelmsford, MA
 E. Ladson, SC
 F. Murfreesboro, TN
 G. Lancaster, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


5.
What is the highest grade you have held on a non-temporary basis in the federal service? If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


6.
What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


7.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Staffing: Part I, Chapter 3, Section A, pre-employment reference checks are an assessment method used in the hiring and selection process to verify the information provided by an internal or external candidate, gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities, and assist a hiring official with making a final selection for a position.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, position title, organization, telephone number, and email address of at least 3 professional references. One of these references must be a current or previous supervisor within the previous three years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted. By providing this information and submitting your application, you are consenting to Human Resources Staff and/or Hiring Managers contacting your references.

If a supervisory reference is not available, candidates may provide an alternate or additional reference from a professional source, such as a co-worker, professor, or other individual who has directly observed your work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, etc.

If a candidate does not grant permission to conduct reference checks with current/former supervisors or a hiring official is unable to reach at least one supervisory reference, and the candidate is unable to provide any alternative references, a hiring official must document and communicate the lack of acceptable references to the HR staff. A hiring official must consider the lack of acceptable references as a factor during the selection process if they were unable to verify work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, and so forth. A hiring official must cease selection consideration of that candidate.

Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Specialist, GS-0301-11 position. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.


Minimum Qualifications: Select the appropriate statement below that best describes your current level of experience and/or education to meet the minimum requirements for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
GS-11 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the Program Specialist, GS-11 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the grade GS-09 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade GS-11.

To be minimally qualified for this position at the GS-11 level, you must meet 3 of the 5 experiences listed below:

1) Plan and execute complex management studies and reviews that affect organizational structure, policy, processes, operations and fiscal management.
2) Assesses and improves program efficiency and effectiveness using a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods such as conducting research and analysis, evaluating program requirements, and reconciling conflicting policies and program goals.
3) Provides program support in a multifaceted, technical production environment to include overseeing mail process information systems, data management, and automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems.
4) Develops procedures and systems for administrative control systems, conducting audits, inspections, and management control reviews while assessing the effectiveness of these systems in a national scope context.
5) Develops organization-wide policy procedures and guidelines regarding mail processes and package delivery management to include providing advice and recommendations to top management based on thorough research, analysis, and interpretation of legislative and program data.

NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hour worked per week.

OR

Substitution of Education for Experience: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience.
You must have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. if related.

NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with applications. Education cannot be credited without documentation.

OR

Combination of Education and Experience: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level.
You must possess an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first two (2) graduate years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position.

NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and ability to successfully perform the duties of the position. NOTE: Your experience must be detailed in your resume to receive full credit.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. if related and such education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with applications. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first two (2) graduate years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I do not possess any of the specialized experience or education as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GS-12 Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience, which equips you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the (Program Specialist), GS-12 position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, this specialized experience must have been equivalent to the grade 11 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade 12.

To be minimally qualified for this position at the GS-12 level, you must meet 4 of the 7 experiences listed below:

1) Plan and execute complex management studies and reviews that affect organizational structure, policy, processes, operations and fiscal management.
2) Assesses and improves program efficiency and effectiveness using a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods such as conducting research and analysis, evaluating program requirements, and reconciling conflicting policies and program goals.
3) Provides program support in a multifaceted, technical production environment to include overseeing mail process information systems, data management, and automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems.
4) Develops procedures and systems for administrative control systems, conducting audits, inspections, and management control reviews while assessing the effectiveness of these systems in a national scope context.
5) Develops organization-wide policy procedures and guidelines regarding mail processes and package delivery management to include providing advice and recommendations to top management based on thorough research, analysis, and interpretation of legislative and program data.
6) Organize and direct team study work, including selecting appropriate methodologies, assembling and assessing information, and formulating findings, conclusions, and recommendations for organizational improvements.
7) Manages risk and ensures compliance with regulatory standards, particularly in areas that involve sensitive data, disaster recovery, and business continuity planning.


Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙