Position Title
Data Scientist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NESDIS-26-13032885-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boulder, CO
 B. Fort Collins, CO
 C. College Park, MD
 D. Greenbelt, MD
 E. Lanham, MD
 F. Riverdale, MD
 G. Silver Spring, MD
 H. Suitland, MD
 I. Stennis Space Center, MS
 J. Asheville, NC
 K. Madison, WI


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Data Science Series, 1560 because I have:

 Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position.
 Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Data Science Series, 1560.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Data Scientist, ZP-1560-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Analyzing data related to workforce management; Utilizing programming or statistical software suites (i.e. R, Python, SAS, SPSS, STATA, Tableau, PowerBI, etc.) to construct predictive models or machine learning algorithms; and Creating infographics, visualizations, or reports conveying insights derived from data analysis.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
When working with both structured and unstructured data, what is the primary goal of applying advanced data science knowledge?

 To archive the data for long-term storage without immediate analysis.
 To extract insights and provide guidance for data-driven decision making across operations.
 To convert all data into a single, standardized structured format before analysis begins.
 To limit the scope of analysis to only highly structured datasets.


2.
In the context of conducting research into new data software, which action best demonstrates the role of a Senior Data Scientist?

 Working independently to avoid coordinating efforts with other staff.
 Determining system requirements and coordinating efforts with other staff while applying knowledge of computer science and statistical theories.
 Focusing only on the coding aspects and delegating all research to junior staff.
 Disregarding cloud service provider infrastructure to focus on on-premise solutions.


3.
When creating resolutions to complex issues involving environmental data, which action is expected of a Senior Data Scientist?

 Presenting potential solutions only to immediate team members, not leadership.
 Developing strategies and solutions based on identified data patterns, trends, and actionable insights, then making recommendations to senior leadership.
 Making decisions unilaterally without evaluating the concepts or approaches.
 Choosing a solution based on personal preference rather than data patterns.


4.
When designing a new process for modeling environmental data, which factor is most critical according to the data science lifecycle?

 Identifying the methods, processes, algorithms, tools, and systems to extract and interpret findings from structured and unstructured data sets.
 Relying solely on existing legacy algorithms without modification.
 Prioritizing the visual aesthetics of the final report over the quality of the underlying data.
 Avoiding cloud-based infrastructure to ensure data remains strictly local.


5.
As a Senior Data Scientist, you are asked to evaluate the adequacy and quality of data used in an analysis. What should be included in your report?

 A list of all team members who contributed to the project.
 Only the final actionable insights without discussing methodology.
 A discussion of the assessment of the data quality, along with an explanation of the methods, results, and relevance of the issues.
 A recommendation to acquire new hardware before any conclusions are drawn.


6.
Which of the following best describes the expectation for a Senior Data Scientist regarding project management?

 Managing work, tracking progress, and communicating scientific study progress to team leads while reviewing compliance to practices.
 Automating all project tracking so that manual communication with team leads is unnecessary.
 Focusing exclusively on individual technical tasks rather than project facilitation.
 Allowing team members to set their own project requirements without oversight.


7.
What is a key requirement when building scalable models using artificial intelligence (such as machine learning) methods?

 Avoiding the use of cloud-based technologies to ensure simplicity.
 Using only proprietary software tools that are not accessible to other staff.
 Devising and evaluating concepts for scientific data design approaches, including criteria, parameters, and interrelationships.
 Focusing on the final output without considering the criteria or parameters of the data collection.


8.
When providing technical supervision to a significant workload of scientific and engineering work, what is an expected duty?

 Only providing input during the final review phase of a project.
 Planning, assigning, and reviewing work; evaluating performance; and identifying training needs.
 Avoiding administrative tasks like interviewing candidates to focus solely on coding.
 Providing supervision only to staff who are at the same pay band as the supervisor.


9.
Which of the following approaches is most effective when preparing a complex data narrative for senior leadership?

 Presenting raw data tables without interpretation to ensure transparency.
 Using a variety of infographics and visualizations to translate complex data into an easily understood narrative.
 Providing a technical manual explaining the code used to generate the findings.
 Focusing primarily on the statistical software suite used, such as Python or R.


10.
If you are asked to conduct data mining and big data analytics to improve mission outcomes, what is a necessary step to provide operational insights?

 Relying on anecdotal evidence from staff rather than quantitative data.
 Using only small, simplified datasets to ensure 100% accuracy.
 Ignoring external project trends to focus strictly on internal department data.
 Leveraging project-tracking data to provide operational insights to the workforce.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙