Position Title
MWR Recreation Assistant Lifeguard
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12850728 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 11, 2025 to Dec 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant Lifeguard position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have recreational and/or customer service experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please choose the response below that best describes your lifeguard experience.
 I have 3+ years of lifeguard experience.
 I have 1-3 years of lifeguard experience.
 I have less than 1 year of lifeguard experience.
 I have no lifeguard experience.


3.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience with hazardous and biohazardous materials such as cleaning agents, pool chemicals, blood, etc.).
 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 1-3 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
Do you have any of the following certifications: Lifeguard Training Certificate, CPR for the Professional and Healthcare Provider, First Aid to include External Defibrillator Certification or Blood Borne Pathogens?
 I have all four of the above certifications.
 I have 3 of the 4 above certifications.
 I have 2 of the four above certifications.
 I have 1 of the above certifications.
 I have none of the above certifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙