Position Title
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST-Title 5 OBO
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12796301-T5-25-386 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 09, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Title 5 OBO Requirement
1.
This position is open to currently employed Title 5 National Guard Employees of the Wisconsin National Guard. Do you currently meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education, or training, involving the movement of freight or passengers and determining transportation and operating costs?


1a.
Please explain your experience.


2.
Do you have experience participating in the direction and coordination of traffic management functions?


2a.
Please explain your experience. 


3.
Do you have experience interpreting and providing routine advice on carrier tariffs and related routing guides?


3a.
Please explain your experience.


4.
Do you have experience preparing reports and recommendations involving appeals, special permits, adjustments in rates and charges?


4a.
Please explain your experience.


5.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙