Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
PATS-OAPP-26-13029537-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Patent and Trademark Office employee in the competitive service?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1). 

Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current USPTO employee who holds or has previously held a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2) AND
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Block #34 Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


2.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


4.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


5.
Are you currently receiving or are you scheduled to receive severance pay as a result of a Reduction in Force (RIF) from a Federal Agency?
 Yes
 No


6.
Which of the following best represents your recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received the highest rating attainable under my organization performance appraisal system.
 I received the second or third highest rating attainable under my organization performance appraisal system.
 I do not meet any of the performance rating described above.
 Not Applicable


7.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.
 Not applicable


8.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service, what is the highest full performance level (promotion potential) of the position you held on a permanent basis?
Note: Your highest full performance level should be shown in the "Remarks" section of you Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that documents your initial placement into that position.
GS-01
GS-02
GS-03
GS-04
GS-05
GS-06
GS-07
GS-08
GS-09
GS-10
GS-11
GS-12
GS-13
GS-14
GS-15
ES-00
WG
WM
Not applicable


9.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the beginning and ending dates of the highest grade level (or equivalent) that you identified in the "Career or Career-Conditional Highest Full Performance Level". Enter 'Not Applicable' if this does not apply to you.


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Applicants must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience in all of the following:
- Leading organizational or program improvement initiatives that improve business operations and program effectiveness.
- Analyzing qualitative and quantitative data to identify trends, evaluate organizational performance, and develop recommendations for management.
- Advising leadership on program, administrative, or organizational issues and implementing strategic solutions.
- Planning and leading cross-functional projects involving multiple stakeholders.

Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙