Position Title
Senior Advisor
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12976907-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
Are you a current employee of Departmental Offices?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14: For the GS-14, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
Representing an agency or large organization at the executive level to support national security missions and objectives; AND
Developing written material for senior officials supporting the objectives of the agency; AND
Supporting national security initiatives by coordinating action items across executive levels and providing support to senior officials; AND
Advising senior management on sensitive, potentially controversial issues impacting high-level decision-making.


1.
For the GS-14: Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Specialized experience for the GS-13: For the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
Developing written material for senior officials supporting the objectives of the agency; AND
Supporting national security initiatives by coordinating action items across executive levels and providing support to senior officials; AND
Advising senior management on sensitive issues impacting decision-making. 


3.
For the GS-13: Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙