Position Title
Scientist (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-12951747-26-CP-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14
15


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 1310 - Physics
 B. 1313 - Geophysics
 C. 1320 - Chemistry
 D. 1321 - Metallurgy
 E. 1330 - Astronomy And Space Science
 F. 1515 - Operations Research
 G. 1520 - Mathematics
 H. 1529 - Mathematical Statistics


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Scientist (Program Examiner) interdisciplinary position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Physics series 1310. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)

 I have a degree with a major study in physics; or related degree that included at least 24 semester hours in physics. The courses must have included a fundamental course in general physics and, in addition, courses in any two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 I have a combination of education with courses equivalent to a major in physics totaling at least 24 semester hours, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The courses must have included a fundamental course in general physics and, in addition, courses in any two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Geophysics series 1313. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree that included at least 30 semester hours in mathematics (including calculus) and the physical sciences (geophysics, physics, engineering, geology, astronomy, meteorology, electronics, etc.).
 I have a combination of education with courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Chemistry series 1320. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)

 I have a degree in physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- course work equivalent to a major as shown in A above, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Metallurgy series 1321. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree with a major study in metallurgy or metallurgical engineering that included at least 20 semester hours in metallurgical subjects
 I have a combination of education with courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or other education
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


5.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Astronomy and Space Science Series 1330. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree with a major study in one or a combination of astronomy, physics, mathematics, space science, or electronics. The course work must have included differential and integral calculus and 12 semester hours in astronomy and/or physics.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- at least 30 semester hours of courses equivalent to a major in any combination of astronomy, space science, physics, mathematics, and electronics, with required course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


6.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Operations Research Series 1515. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)

 I have a degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 I do not possess the education described above.


7.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Mathematics Series 1520. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)

 I have a degree with a major study in mathematics; or the equivalent of a major that included at least 24 semester hours in mathematics. The total course work must have included differential and integral calculus and, in addition, four advanced mathematics courses requiring calculus or equivalent mathematics courses as a prerequisite.
 I have a combination of education with courses equivalent to a major in mathematics (including at least 24 semester hours in mathematics), as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The total course work must have included differential and integral calculus and, in addition, four advanced mathematics courses requiring calculus or equivalent mathematics courses as a prerequisite.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


8.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Mathematical Statistical Series 1529. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)

 I have a degree that included 24 semester hours of mathematics and statistics, of which at least 12 semester hours were in mathematics and 6 semester hours were in statistics.
 I have a combination of education with at least 24 semester hours of mathematics and statistics, including at least 12 hours in mathematics and 6 hours in statistics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


9.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Scientist (Program Examiner) interdisciplinary position at the GS-13 level.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-12 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1) Developing studies to address scientific challenges; 2) Evaluating budgetary requirements for programs and projects; AND 3) Collaborating with stakeholders and/or subject matter experts to facilitate the exchange of scientific and budgetary information.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


10.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Scientist (Program Examiner) interdisciplinary position at the GS-14 level.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-13 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1) Developing studies to address scientific challenges to provide recommendations to enhance the programs; 2) Evaluating budgetary requirements for programs and projects to ensure alignment with strategic objectives, compliance with relevant federal regulations, and/or efficient utilization of resources; AND 3) Collaborate with interdisciplinary teams, stakeholders, and/or subject matter experts to facilitate the exchange of scientific and budgetary information.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


11.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Scientist (Program Examiner) interdisciplinary position at the GS-15 level.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-14 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1) Implementing studies to address scientific challenges to provide recommendations to enhance the programs; 2) Evaluating budgetary requirements for programs and projects and assess related expenditures to ensure alignment with strategic objectives, compliance with relevant federal regulations, and efficient utilization of resources; 3) Collaborating with interdisciplinary teams, stakeholders, and subject matter experts to facilitate the exchange of scientific and budgetary information; AND 4) Developing guidance on proposed research, programs, and science policies.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


12.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify to the accuracy of my application and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify to the accuracy of my application or continuing with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙