Position Title
Supervisory Program Specialist (Supervisory Staff Assistant)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-13032992-26-ARH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Program Specialist GS-0301-14 position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Area of Consideration - This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and current/former Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA or a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am currently a permanent employee of VBA I will submit my most recent appointment SF-50 as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.
 Yes, I am a current/former employee who is CTAP eligible and I will submit my documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


VBA Non-Competitive Consideration - If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST answer the below questions and submit your most recent appointment SF-50 and the SF-50 that reflects when you entered your highest grade and step to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?

 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


Time-In-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (Not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.  Please select the appropriate response below.


3.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes your time-in-grade:
 A. I have held a GS-14 or higher grade.
 B. I have one year in a GS-13 position (or higher).
 C. None of the above.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for the grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
To qualify at the GS-14 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as that experience which equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level of GS-13 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 or higher in the Federal Service. Specialized Experience is defined as experience in all of the following: (1)expert knowledge of Veteran benefit programs or VBA business lines and laws affecting Veterans' compensation and pension benefits to provide authoritative guidance and direction on claims and appeals processing. (2) supervised, managed, or served as a project lead to accomplish performance and project goals; possesses knowledge and/or practical application of employee relations (e.g., performance or conduct based actions) and labor relations (e.g., grievance process or negotiations) practices. (3) Establishing priorities and determining resource needs to meet program objectives. (4) Directing, coordinating and approving a full range of personnel management actions and organizational change proposals. (5) Directing comprehensive and complex program reviews. (6) Monitoring and controlling program progression and effectiveness through analysis of policies, directives and organizational short and long-range goals. (7) Candidates must also have demonstrated in their work experience or training that they possess, or have the potential to develop, the qualities to successfully supervise subordinates/teams and to share responsibility for directing and supervising the administrative work necessary to manage a successful program area.
 My experience is not described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙