Position Title
HEALTH SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12938415-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to May 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Health Systems Specialist, GS-0671-09 position.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07). With progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems; Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I have a combination of the experience and education listed above. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


2.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am a current military member of another component immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a prior member eligible to immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Are you a TSgt(E-6) not to exceed MSgt (E-7)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard as a TSgt(E-6) not to exceed MSgt (E-7)

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

AFSC: X4N071 Applicants must have "X" prefix on AFSC and current & qualified Aeromedical experience.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? -OR- Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 Yes
 No


7.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙