Position Title
MACHINIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13022477-AR-26-156 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


Military Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (CSMS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (CSMS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E4 to E5)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   
 


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-10 Machinist.
 I HAVE experience or training that provides 1) basic knowledge of machining processes and 2) the ability to use drill presses, shapers, planers and other types of associated machine tools.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-10 Machinist.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training 1) performing in full range of machining operations on most types of conventional or CNC machine tools and their various attachments, 2) in planning and lay out work from blueprints, worksheets and other drawings that may have missing or incorrect information, 3) in applying shop mathematics in establishing needed dimensions, such as those required for chasing threads or machining angular surfaces; locating and marking surfaces and angles to be machined, 4) in programming machining operations, setting up and operating CNC machine tools, and 5) ability to apply advanced shop mathematics such as geometric and trigonometric formulas to make computation for laying out work, machining pieces at unusual or compound angles, determining gear ratios pitch, angles and other similar exact or precision dimension.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙