Position Title
POLICE OFFICER (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12981852-AF-26-138 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


1.
Do you possess qualifying general experience that includes experience in administrative, clerical, technical, or military work that involved protecting property, equipment, data, or materials; or that involved making judgments based on the application of directions, rules, regulations, or laws?
 Yes.
 No.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that provided you with knowledge of a body of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property; conducting routine foot and/or vehicle patrols; responding to routine and emergency calls for police assistance; issuing traffic citations; questioning individuals at the scene of a crime; informing individuals about their rights as suspects; subduing unruly individuals; and preparing written reports involving criminal and/or civil offenses? This specialized experience must also include knowledge of firearms and tactics for employment in emergency situations as well as the safe handling of explosives during training. Creditable specialized experience may have been gained in work on a police force; through service as a military police officer; in work providing visitor protection and law enforcement in parks, forests, or other natural resource or recreational environments; in performing criminal investigative duties; or in other work that provided the required knowledge and skills.
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you been convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
In detail, explain your experience performing law enforcement work to maintain law and order, preserve the peace, protect life and civil rights, detect, and assisting local, state, or federal law enforcement in investigations, arrests and/or detention, or apprehension, and perform patrols within the assigned jurisdiction.


5.
In detail, explain your experience protecting personnel, material, tactical military assets, and high value assets by executing daily Random Anti-terrorism Measure (RAM) and supplemental anti-terrorism measures during increased force protection conditions.


6.
In detail, explain your experience responding to and investigating emergency calls, complaints, and other calls for service, to include protests, active shooter events, and terrorist attacks.


7.
In detail, explain your experience interviewing subjects, complainants and witnesses to obtain information, taking written statements; conducting examination of crime scenes; searching for evidence; identifying evidence; collecting, preserving, and submitting crime laboratory evidence such as fingerprints, bloodstains, suspected narcotics, weapons, castings of footprints and tire prints, documents, etc., using special investigative techniques and equipment; safeguards evidence and assures integrity is not compromised for further examination.


8.
In detail, explain your experience determining type of alarm, type of facility, and initiating action in accordance with procedures set for the type of facility.


9.
In detail, explain your experience accessing law enforcement databases to retrieve information and complete reports.


10.
In detail, explain your experience performing emergency response and incident command and control.


11.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙