Position Title
Benefits & Records Technician (Central Processing) Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12962402-DHA-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the questions carefully. Responding "No" may result in loss of further consideration.


1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Benefits & Records Technician position with the Social Security Administration.


1.
Select the ONE statement below that most closely describes your experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Benefits & Records Technician, GS-5. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for further information.
 I have 52 weeks of experience by the closing date of the announcement that includes experience applying rules, policies, or procedures to provide customer assistance, answering or asking customer questions to obtain or provide information, and using a computer to enter data.
 I do not have experience, but I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study above high school in an accredited institution (e.g., 120 semester hours, 180 quarter hours, Bachelor’s degree, etc.). If you are qualifying for this position based on completed education at an accredited U.S. college, university, or other educational institution, you must provide a copy of your transcripts.
 I have a combination of experience and education that is equal to 100 percent. Education course work equivalent to a baccalaureate program beyond the second year (e.g., in excess of the first 60 semester or 90 quarter hours) is creditable toward meeting the minimum qualification requirements. One full academic year of study (e.g., 30 semester hours or 45 quarters hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of experience. Experience and education as described above may be combined to meet the minimum qualification requirements. It should be computed as percentages of the overall requirements and must equal to 100 percent when combined. You must provide a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not have the education or experience as described in A, B, or C above.


2.
Select the statement below that describes your experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Benefits & Records Technician, GS-6. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for further information.
 I have 52 weeks of experience by the closing date of the announcement that includes operating a personal computer and utilizing software such as entering and retrieving data, editing, making record changes, verifying information; applying rules, regulations and written guidelines to work assignments, such as reviewing, verifying, evaluating applications, claims, documents, forms, etc., to determine acceptability for processing; maintains workload data and monitors workloads to ensure timeframes are met; communicating orally with the public to provide or obtain information; writing correspondence/reports such as responding to inquiries or requests for information.
 I do not have the experience as described in A above.


3.
Do you acknowledge that this position is not a remote work position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙