Position Title
Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
EXRD-OCIO-26-12820148 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 24, 2025 to Nov 07, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service system?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


4.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


Professional/Technical Qualifications (PTQs)
There is NO requirement to prepare a narrative statement specifically addressing the Professional/Technical Qualifications (PTQs). When completing the USAJOBS short-answer sections, use the text boxes to identify relevant experience from your two-page resume for each PTQ. Each response is limited to 150 characters (including spaces). Be sure your examples match information included in your resume, as unrelated text will not be considered.


1.

Please identify where in your two-page resume the applicable experience for PTQ #1 can be found.
Expert knowledge of and demonstrated hands-on experience delivering; artificial intelligence, machine learning and natural language processing solutions in support of business objectives; solution architecture/design/engineering; cloud engineering and cloud services; information security, especially in the protection of data assets in relation to AI implementation and usage; and sophisticated understanding of future trends in artificial intelligence and ability to drive innovation.



2.

Please identify where in your two-page resume the applicable experience for PTQ #2 can be found. 
Demonstrated leadership ability and expert knowledge to lead strategic and tactical enterprise-wide AI technology initiatives and technology adoption that improve and enhance information technology products and operations and business programs and outcomes across a large, multifunctional technical organization which includes a blended workforce consisting of employees and contractors/vendors.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙