Position Title
Deputy AIGA/Director IQR
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
STIMP-12882260-26-TL Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1

The following questions are the first step in the assessment process for this position. Your responses will be used to evaluate your minimum qualifications and determine whether you advance to the next assessment stage(s).

Please read each question carefully and answer honestly based on your actual experience and/or education. Your responses must be supported by information in your resume and any required supporting documents.

Applicants who meet the requirements at this stage may be asked to complete one or more additional assessments, such as subject matter expert (SME) reviews, written exercises, interviews, or other job-related evaluations.

Overstating or misrepresenting your qualifications may result in your removal from consideration. There is no penalty for answering honestly.

Once submitted, your responses cannot be changed.



1.
Which statement best describes your time-in-grade status for this position? (Time-in-grade requirements must be met by the closing date of the announcement. Applicants must provide SF-50s that clearly demonstrate eligibility.)
 I do meet the time-in-grade requirement for this position
 I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement for this position.


2.

The GS-0511 job series has an educational requirement. To qualify, applicants must meet one of the following 3 options. Please select which option(s) you meet:

Option 1: Degree: accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.

Option 2: Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:

Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
Option 3: I do not meet this requirement
 Option 1
 Option 2
 I do not meet this requirement


3.

I acknowledge that this position is in Alexandria, Virginia. 

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙