Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CFO-26-13003893 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a U.S. citizen?

All U.S. citizens are eligible.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a recent graduate that meets the eligibility criteria below?

To be eligible, an individual must have obtained an associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree, or a certificate from a qualifying educational institution, or have completed a qualifying career or technical education program within the previous 2 years. Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.

Three types of programs meet the eligibility criteria for a qualifying career or technical education program:

Federally administered educational programs that provide rigorous academic content, technical skill proficiency, and a recognized post-secondary credential to prepare the individual for further education and/or a career in a current or emerging profession;
Registered Apprenticeship Programs; and
Federally administered local, state, national, or international volunteer service programs.

What is a Federally administered career or technical education program?

A Federally administered career or technical education program is subject to programmatic oversight by a federal agency that includes:

The nature and scope of work to be performed by participants,
The type(s) and scope of training to be provided to participants,
The types of skills participants will acquire or develop during the program (e.g., teaching, environmental, business, scientific, public health/health care, languages),
The level and extent of mentoring participants will receive, and
The metrics for successful completion of the program.

What constitutes a valid certificate program for purposes of eligibility under the Pathways Programs? 

The Pathways Programs regulation (see 5 CFR 362.102) defines certificate program as post-secondary education at either:

a qualifying educational institution (trade or vocational school, 2-year or 4-year college or university, or graduate or professional school) equivalent to at least one academic year of full-time study that is part of an accredited college-level, technical, trade, vocational, or business school curriculum; or
a qualifying career or technical education program of at least one year that awards a recognized post-secondary credential. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


FLETC Data Questions
1.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal Government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


2.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


3.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


4.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
Please choose the answer which best reflects your experience and/or education as it relates to the GS-0560-05, Budget Analyst. Please make sure your resume supports your answer.
 Three years of general experience, one year of which is equivalent to the GS-4 level in Federal service, that demonstrate the ability to 1) Assisting with the formulation and execution of budgets; 2) Verifying accuracy of budget and accounting documents; 3) Performing computer-related essential activities in the execution and formulation stages of the budget process and 4) Assisting in the preparation of exhibits, charts, reports and narrative material in support of budget presentations
 Four years of post-high school study leading to a bachelor's degree in any field
 A Combination of successfully completed post-high school education and general experience as described above.
 None of the above.


2.
Please choose the answer which best reflects your experience and/or education as it relates to the GS-0560-07, Budget Analyst. Please make sure your resume supports your answer.
 One year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in Federal service, that demonstrates the ability to 1) Assisting with the formulation and execution of budgets; 2) Verifying accuracy of budget and accounting documents; 3) Performing computer-related essential activities in the execution and formulation stages of the budget process and 4) Assisting in the preparation of exhibits, charts, reports and narrative material in support of budget presentations; 5) Assisting in establishment of reimbursable agreements and projects, including the relationship among various computer programs; 6) Recommending updates to computer systems, e.g., creation or update of Momentum tables, to enhance budget execution
 One full year of graduate level education at an accredited or pre-accredited college or university
 A combination of successfully completed graduate level education and specialized experience as described above. This will be calculated using your resume and unofficial transcripts or a list of courses/course hours submitted with your application
 A bachelor's degree with superior academic achievement, which is based on (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership: Class standing - Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. Grade-point average (GPA.) - Applicants must have a grade-point average of: 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society -- Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies. Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙