Position Title
Criminal Investigator, Polygraph Examiner - Investigative Operations Division (IOD)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX 26-99B-12966284-DR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current employee of a federal agency which is covered under the Excepted Service?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former career federal employee with competitive status?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Montgomery, AL
 BC. Anchorage, AK
 BQ. Phoenix, AZ
 BR. Tucson, AZ
 BS. Little Rock, AR
 BT. Chula Vista, CA
 BU. Fresno, CA
 BV. Long Beach, CA
 BW. Los Angeles County, CA
 BX. Oakland, CA
 BY. Riverside, CA
 BZ. Sacramento County, CA
 CA. San Jose, CA
 CB. San Mateo, CA
 CC. Santa Clarita, CA
 CD. Denver, CO
 CE. New Haven, CT
 CF. Southeastern Connecticut Planning Region, CT
 CG. Washington, DC
 CH. Jacksonville, FL
 CI. Miami, FL
 CJ. Orlando, FL
 CK. Tallahassee, FL
 CL. Tampa, FL
 CM. West Palm Beach, FL
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Honolulu, HI
 D. Carol Stream, IL
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Hammond, IN
 G. Indianapolis, IN
 H. Windsor Heights, IA
 I. Covington, KY
 J. Louisville, KY
 K. New Orleans, LA
 L. Shreveport, LA
 M. Baltimore, MD
 N. Bethesda, MD
 O. Capitol Heights, MD
 P. Brockton, MA
 Q. Woburn, MA
 R. Allen Park, MI
 S. Grand Rapids, MI
 T. Duluth, MN
 U. Eagan, MN
 V. Jackson, MS
 W. Kansas City, MO
 X. Saint Charles, MO
 Y. Saint Louis, MO
 Z. Las Vegas, NV
 AA. Bellmawr, NJ
 AC. Edison, NJ
 AD. Trenton, NJ
 AE. Albuquerque, NM
 AF. Brooklyn, NY
 AG. Buffalo, NY
 AH. New York, NY
 AI. Syracuse, NY
 AJ. West Babylon, NY
 AK. Charlotte, NC
 AL. Greensboro, NC
 AM. Raleigh, NC
 AN. Columbus, OH
 AO. Lakewood, OH
 AP. Oklahoma City, OK
 AQ. Portland, OR
 AR. Harrisburg, PA
 AS. Warrendale, PA
 AT. San Juan, PR
 AU. Woonsocket, RI
 AV. West Columbia, SC
 AW. Knoxville, TN
 AX. Memphis, TN
 AY. Austin, TX
 AZ. Bedford, TX
 BA. Coppell, TX
 BB. Dallas, TX
 BD. El Paso, TX
 BE. Houston, TX
 BF. San Antonio, TX
 BG. Salt Lake City, UT
 BH. Arlington, VA
 BI. Chesapeake, VA
 BJ. Merrifield, VA
 BK. Richmond, VA
 BL. Roanoke, VA
 BM. Federal Way, WA
 BN. Spokane, WA
 BO. Vancouver, WA
 BP. Milwaukee, WI


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university?

 Yes
 No


2.
Have you completed the Basic Criminal Investigative Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) or its equivalent?

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently serve as a federal law enforcement officer classified as an 1811 series Criminal Investigator or Military equivalent?

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least 4 years of professional federal law enforcement experience?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a graduate of the basic polygraph course offered by the National Center for Credibility Assessment (NCCA) or by its prior official designations as the Defense Academy for Credibility Assessment (DACA) or Department of Defense Polygraph Institute (DoDPI)?

 Yes
 No


6.
Have you within the last 10 years, been certified as an active Federal polygraph examiner by an authorized Federal polygraph or credibility assessment program per respective agency and Federal standards and requirements?

 Yes
 No


7.
Can you affirm that you have not been previously decertified, due to substandard proficiency or as a punitive remedy of suspected or confirmed violations of ethical standards?

 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have excellent verbal and written communication skills?

 Yes
 No


9.
Do you have the ability to work both independently and in a team environment?

 Yes
 No


10.
Did you receive at least a met expectations performance rating on your most recent performance appraisals? (You must submit copies of your latest 2 performance appraisals - FY 2024 and 2025).

 Yes
 No


11.
Do you have an Advanced academic degree?

 Yes
 No


12.
Do you have knowledge of the U.S. Postal Service?

 Yes
 No


13.
Do you have experience conducting mail theft, narcotics, financial fraud and/or healthcare criminal investigations?

 Yes
 No


14.
Your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation, and later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify the accuracy of your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure they accurately represent your current level of experience and capability and select the response below that best applies. Failure to certify accuracy below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation, or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to this questionnaire, my rating maybe lowered, or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I choose not to certify the accuracy of my response and application materials, and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙