Position Title
Realty Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12948049-26-MCS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Vallejo, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Gurnee, IL
 D. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the assessment, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience for the GS-13 level of this position: Applicants must have one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to:
- Prospectus-level leasing, land acquisition and disposition, land use, special real property projects.
- Implementation of policies and procedures for those programs.
- Participates in reviews and requests, provides guidance to field staff.
- Conducts training.
- Drafts correspondence related to projects.
- Required to create and conduct presentations to leadership, both verbally and in writing.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirement as stated above?

 Yes
 No


2.
Specialized Experience for the GS-14 level of this position: Applicants must have one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-13) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to:
- Program/project management on numerous projects within one or more of ORP's programs.
- Leading a cross-functional project team, establishing project plans and schedules, achieving milestones and communicating effectively with internal and external stakeholders.
- Ensuring that Departmental policy, regulations, and operational decisions are continually reflected in ORP's programs as they relate to the managed projects.
- Monitoring project performance, client comments, and concerns, operational considerations.
- Conducting studies, chairing working groups, and developing new approaches, alternatives, and recommendations for improvement.
- Communicating effectively with the project team to ensure that environmental, historic, community, legal.
- Working directly with a variety of contractors for project support.
- Representing the office in meetings with officials from VA Central Office, Medical Centers, National Cemeteries, state and local government officials, and other stakeholders.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirement as stated above?

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you or have you ever possessed a Lease Contracting Officer Certificate? [NOTE: A copy of Lease Contracting Officer Certificate is required to be submitted with application if you answer Yes to this question] 
 
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Job Knowledge Test: Select the correct answer to the following questions based on your current job knowledge and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position you are applying for. There is only one correct answer to each question. You must answer all questions.


1.
During a lease evaluation, an offeror submits a revised proposal after the stated due date. What is your responsibility?
 Acknowledge receipt but defer any decision on the submission until after award.
 Inform the offeror that late submissions are generally not accepted and refer them to the LCO, without further documentation.
 Advise the offeror that the submission appears late and take no additional action unless the LCO directs otherwise.
 Ensure handling of the late submission complies with federal acquisition regulations and VA leasing policy and fully document the decision in the acquisition file.


2.
For best value tradeoff source selection procedures, which information must be documented in the price negotiation memorandum to support an audit ready decision?
 A narrative summary of the selected offeror’s approach, including key construction and activation milestones.
 A detailed explanation of the evaluation factors, how each proposal was rated, and how tradeoff decisions were reached.
 A detailed description of how the technical requirements were met and how the proposed design and construction schedule aligns with the project’s required completion date.
 A brief summary of the Contracting Officers decision.


3.
A lease proposal includes evidence of site control that expires two weeks before the anticipated lease award date. What is required?
 Require updated documentation showing site control through at least the anticipated award date and any additional period required by the solicitation.
 Proceed with evaluation and rely on the offeror’s representation that site control will be extended prior to award.
 Note the expiration in the file but take no further action unless the Contracting Officer raises a concern.
 Accept the existing documentation as sufficient if the offeror verbally commits to extending the option before closing.


4.
In a best value tradeoff lease procurement, two proposals have identical evaluated present value pricing. How must you proceed?
 Use shell rent as a tie breaker and select the proposal with the lower first year shell rent.
 Ask both offerors for revised pricing and select the lower price if technical ratings stay the same.
 Apply the stated technical evaluation factors, compare the relative strengths and weaknesses, and document the tradeoff supporting the selected offeror.
 Select the proposal with the same technical rating but fewer identified weaknesses to simplify documentation.


5.
You discover that a critical agency requirement was omitted from the lease solicitation after it was issued. What is the most appropriate response?
 Correct the issue in the next draft of the lease and avoid elevating it unless a protest is filed.
 Promptly report the oversight, assess schedule and cost impacts, propose mitigation options (e.g., amendment), and document the decision.
 Wait to raise the issue until the next formal governance or milestone review to avoid disrupting the current schedule.
 Defer action until construction planning, when the full operational impact of the omission can be evaluated.


6.
You discover inconsistencies in square footage between an offeror's initial and revised lease proposals. How should you proceed?
 Note the discrepancy internally but proceed if it does not appear to change the competitive standing of offerors.
 Ask the Technical Evaluation Board to discuss the discrepancy and adjust scoring as needed, without contacting the offeror.
 Normalize the numbers yourself using the most conservative square footage to avoid any appearance of favoritism.
 Seek clarification from the offeror, reconcile the calculations, and document all corrections and rationale in the file.


7.
Which situation requires an explicit determination by the Contracting Officer before proceeding?
 Accepting a proposed material substitution that may change cost, performance, or life cycle value.
 Approving a change in interior finishes that stays within previously approved standards and budget.
 Adjusting the project schedule by a few weeks to accommodate VA driven design changes.
 Updating the project contact directory and distribution lists after staff turnover.


8.
Which action best demonstrates accountability when managing a complex lease project with multiple milestones?
 Raising emerging issues primarily at scheduled governance meetings to avoid over communicating.
 Delegating most issues to subject matter experts and relying on them to escalate concerns when necessary.
 Allowing schedule slippage to accumulate and addressing it only when leadership or stakeholders express concerns.
 Tracking deliverables regularly, identifying risks early, and proactively adjusting priorities to keep the project on scope, schedule, and budget.


9.
Which tool is most appropriate for tracking schedule performance and critical activities on a lease project?
 A narrative project summary that is updated at major milestones.
 A critical path schedule that identifies milestones, dependencies, and float.
 A tracking log that records key correspondence and meeting dates.
 The project team’s monthly leave calendar to anticipate staffing constraints.


10.
What is the primary purpose of conducting a market survey and related market research in preparing for lease procurements?
 To give building owners an opportunity to present marketing materials and preliminary design concepts before the solicitation is issued.
 To confirm that the Government’s initial space requirement is correct and to identify a preferred site before completing the acquisition plan.
 To gather and document information on properties that can meet the Government’s minimum requirements, support the development of negotiation objectives, and determine whether suitable property is competitively available.
 To eliminate properties that do not currently meet all design standards, so that negotiations can focus on the single building that fully complies with the requirements as advertised.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙