Position Title
Operations Coordinator
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCNA-26-12940472-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Diego, CA
 B. Seattle, WA


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


2.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


Merit Hiring
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question or N/A. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Operations Coordinator position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-9: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Coordinator at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a master?s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Which of the following describes your highest level of involvement in assessing and adjusting mail operation procedures for an office?

 I was responsible for assessing and adjusting mail operation procedures for an office and its implementation, including training of staff, and resolving issues that arose.
 I participated in directing a subordinate staff in the implementation of new or revised mail operation procedures.
 I received training and direction on new or revised mail operations and was responsible for complying with all procedures.
 I followed existing mail operation procedures and was responsible for complying with all procedures.
 None of the above.


3.
Which of the following activities have you performed related to procurement, maintenance of supplies, and contracts in an office environment? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have been a Bank Card holder or had sole authority to procure supplies for an office.
 B. I have monitored contracts (such as ensuring services are rendered timely and performed receipt and acceptance for filing services, copier/meter contracts, etc.).
 C. I have monitored office supply inventory and ordered supplies as necessary.
 D. None of the above.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience in providing legal and administrative support to clients and colleagues.

 I have minimal experience in providing legal and administrative support and typically rely on others for assistance.
 I provide basic legal and administrative support under supervision but need guidance for more complex tasks.
 I independently provide legal and administrative support on routine matters but seek guidance for complex or high-stakes tasks.
 I am highly experienced in providing comprehensive legal and administrative support, including complex matters, with little to no guidance.
 None of the above.


5.
Select the statement that describes your experience performing research, analyzing case files, reference materials and automated tracking systems, and providing information to attorneys or other professionals for their use in interpreting statutes, regulations, and/or policies.

 I have over 3 years of experience performing research and analyzing case files, automated tracking systems and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience performing research and analyzing case files, automated tracking systems and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have less than 1 year of experience performing research and analyzing case files, automated tracking systems and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have not performed this task for attorneys or other professionals, but I have performed legal research and analyzed case files in a classroom.
 I have not performed legal research or analyzed case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.


6.
Which of the following activities have you performed that required knowledge of legal support procedures? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have reviewed incoming legal correspondence and routed it to the appropriate person/attorney for action.
 B. I have monitored due dates and deadlines on pending case actions and followed up to insure timely completion.
 C. I have formatted legal documents such as answers, motions, decisions, settlement memorandums, subpoenas, etc.
 D. I have examined case documents to determine if procedural requirements have been met.
 E. I have analyzed reports produced from legal case tracking databases.
 F. I have assisted attorneys by taking notes at trial calendar sessions (for example, takes notes, records due dates ordered by the judge, records case disposition).
 G. I have had education and training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 H. None of the above.


7.
What is your highest level of leadership experience?

 I have served as a team lead for a project lasting 6 months or more.
 I have served as a co-lead for a project lasting 6 months or more.
 I have served as a Point of Contact (POC) interacting with internal and external office representatives.
 I have served as a member of a team or task force.
 None of the above.


8.
Which of the following describes your highest level of involvement with a team composed of legal and clerical support staff?

 I have experience leading a team composed of legal and clerical support staff, leading team meetings, assigning tasks to members, providing training, and assisting members on complex assignments, and following up to ensure tasks were completed.
 I have experience managing a project while serving on a team composed of legal support staff, providing training, and guidance to team members, and ensuring each team member completed his or her assigned duties.
 I have experience serving on more than one team, carrying out assigned tasks, and presenting findings to the team.
 I have experience serving on one team and carrying out tasks as a team member.
 None of the above.


9.
What is your level of experience in training and developing others? Select all that apply.

 A. I led informal or one-off training sessions, primarily for small groups or individual staff members.
 B. I have designed and delivered structured training programs within my team or office, focusing on skill development and performance improvement.
 C. I have collaborated with a team to deliver training in both individual and group settings.
 D. I have developed training guides to assist others with existing and/or new protocols and processes.
 E. None of the above.


10.
Select the statement that best describes your experience incorporating technology and software programs to train others.

 I have limited experience using technology or software programs in training and mainly rely on traditional methods.
 I have used basic software tools (e.g., PowerPoint, video conferencing) to support training.
 I have incorporated eLearning platforms and basic digital tools into training programs to enhance engagement and learning outcomes.
 None of the above.


11.
Which of the following verbal communication tasks have you performed on the job?

 A. I have authored and presented briefings to upper management.
 B. I have coordinated needs and procedures with off-site managers or staff members.
 C. I have facilitated meetings or conference calls that included formal agendas and meeting notes or minutes.
 D. I have worked with vendors, for example, to clarify discrepancies, gather information, or resolve issues.
 E. I have briefed the team on legal or office management processes at management's request.
 F. None of the above.


12.
Select the statement that most accurately reflects your ability to write concisely without sacrificing clarity or essential meaning.

 I tend to use excessive wording and often struggle to convey ideas without including unnecessary details.
 I am able to write concisely, though I occasionally include more information than required.
 I generally write concisely, but I sometimes find it difficult to eliminate redundant content.
 I consistently write in a concise manner, ensuring all relevant information is included while eliminating superfluous details to enhance clarity and efficiency.
 None of the above.


13.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙