Position Title
EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12966797-AR-26-078 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E5 - E9 or WO1 - CW4?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E5 - E9 or WO1 - CW4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more classes of equipment. The experience must include knowledge of standard shop terminology. A basic knowledge of mechanical principles relating to equipment. Experience must demonstrate the ability to read and interpret blueprints and technical publications. Knowledge is of the type gained from technical training, education, and experience in functions such as repairing, overhauling, maintaining, constructing, or inspecting equipment. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess at 1-year equivalent to at least next lower grade level experience, education, or training which provided knowledge and skill in applying commonly used equipment, facility, or service principles and concepts. Experience in the use of tools and test equipment. Experience which provided knowledge of maintenance programs and techniques. Knowledge and skill in applying principles, concepts, and methods of equipment design. Experience in the use of tools and test equipment. Experience developing, installing, inspecting, or revising equipment maintenance programs and techniques
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience serving as a subject matter expert or recognized authority in the repair and operation of military or heavy equipment. Specifically, detail your experience developing, preparing, and conducting both classroom and on-the-job training (OJT) for maintenance personnel. How have you evaluated training progress in areas such as mechanic principles, repair theories, and compliance with established procedures?


4.
Provide an example of your experience advising on and evaluating maintenance management systems and material readiness programs. In your response, describe your proficiency in receiving, reviewing, and processing technical readiness reports (such as the Army Material Status System [AMSS] or similar logistical reports), and how you consolidate and submit these findings to higher-level logistical support activities to impact the overall maintenance program.


5.
Explain your experience evaluating maintenance directives, standard operating procedures, and shop practices to ensure adherence to standards and proper use of resources (personnel, funds, facilities, and equipment). Describe a specific instance where you recommended and implemented policy, procedure, or operational changes to higher headquarters that improved the efficiency of maintenance operations and manpower utilization.


6.
Describe your proficiency in utilizing computer software programs, supply data systems, and logistical studies to review the effectiveness of equipment and maintenance management. Provide a specific example of how you researched maintenance data to identify errors or excessive non-mission capable time, and subsequently developed a course of action that successfully improved operational readiness.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are ture and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙