Position Title
Survey Technician
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
ID-I/CTAP-12941330-SLZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Cottonwood, ID
 B. Pocatello, ID


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.

From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification experience or education requirements for Survey Technician, GS-0817-07.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity at the GS-06 grade. Examples of the experience includes: Assisting on cadastral field surveys; serves as the principal assistant on the survey crew, frequently in charge of crew conducting field work, ability to maximize efficiency of field work; training crew members on proper method and procedures for conducting work and the use of care of equipment, ensures safety procedures are followed by members of field crew at all times; performs basic survey calculations in the field, assists in the preparation of draft field notes and plats. I have provided this information in my resume.
 I have 18 semester/24 quarter credit hours of graduate education directly related to the work of this position. I have supported this information in my resume and will submit transcripts before the closing date of this announcement.
 I have a combination of work experience and education. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience to qualify for this position. I have described this experience in my resume and will submit transcripts before the closing date of this announcement.
 I do not have the education, or the experience described above.


2.
Indicate the level of your experience in applying specialized cadastral survey procedures as part of a job:
 I have not had education, training, or experience in this field.
 I have completed education or training in this field but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have used professional knowledge in this field on the job. My work in this field was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed work in this field as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and without more than normal review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 Work in this field has been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed the work and I have trained others in performance of this work and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this work.


3.
Indicate the types of surveys you assist in completing:
 A. Original surveys
 B. Dependent and/or independent resurveys
 C. Metes and bounds surveys of irregular tracts of lands
 D. Subdivision of section surveys
 E. Water boundary surveys
 F. Resurveys of mineral surveys
 G. Geodetic control surveys
 H. Other types of land surveys
 I. None of the above


4.
I perform the following responsibilities as a survey party leader:
 A. Plan the field procedures to be followed in the execution of surveys.
 B. Direct the activities for other surveying technicians and aides.
 C. Set the pace for the crew, maintain discipline and ensure that prescribed survey procedures are followed.
 D. Establish work priorities and provide guidance to crew members on safe work methods.
 E. Ensure applicable safety equipment and devices are available and used.
 F. Make administrative arrangements for the survey such as sufficient proper supplies and equipment and approval of anticipated overtime.
 G. Prepare administrative reports on progress, time and attendance, vehicle usage, maintenance, and travel costs.
 H. None of the above.


5.
Identify the tasks you are responsible for that require knowledge of surveying mathematics:
 A. Run a traverse around a closed figure to get closure.
 B. Run a traverse around a closed figure to compute area.
 C. Convert from one unit of measurement to another.
 D. Convert bearings to azimuths.
 E. Compute latitude and longitude from State plane coordinates.
 F. Subdivide a section.
 G. Subdivide a lotted section.
 H. Proportion lost corner positions.
 I. Reduce static GPS data.
 J. Inverse between coordinate pairs.
 K. None of the above.


6.
Identify the following cadastral survey technician tasks you perform as part of your assigned duties:
 A. Find the physical evidence of the corner position or its accessories.
 B. Find supplemental survey record.
 C. Take testimony concerning corner positions.
 D. Know when a corner is existent, obliterated or lost.
 E. Reduce solar and stellar observations for determining azimuth to determine the direction, the bearing (or azimuth) of line between two points.
 F. Determine azimuth between two points through astronomical observations.
 G. Determine geographic location and time by astronomical observations or through use of a Global Positioning System (GPS).
 H. Make precise measurements of horizontal and vertical angles and distances using a theodolite or Total Station.
 I. Compute traverse surveys and triangulations using a Total Station when direct projection of lines and distances is not possible.
 J. Use computer software and/or handheld calculators to compute closures, inverses and proportional segments for restoring lost property corners.
 K. Monument corner positions of a survey and make excavations for iron post or other monuments.
 L. Construct corner accessories by marking reference points, bearing objects and bearing trees.
 M. Research county records to gather survey data and land ownership records for the survey record.
 N. Make survey field notes.
 O. Prepare official survey notes and draft plats and charts.
 P. Set up RTK-GPS equipment for use by others.
 Q. Operate RTK-GPS equipment to collect and store data.
 R. None of the above.


7.
Indicate the surveying equipment you use on the job:
 A. Theodolite
 B. Electronic distance measuring unit (EDM)
 C. Total Station
 D. Global Positioning System (GPS)
 E. Transit
 F. Programmable calculators
 G. RTK-GPS
 H. Survey software
 I. Desktop/laptop computers
 J. None of the above


8.
Indicate the survey technician tasks you perform related to compilation of survey data for graphic presentation:
 A. Analyze and abstract survey data obtained from survey plats, master title plats, survey index, quad maps, and field notes to draw relationship diagrams.
 B. Compute geographic coordinates of Public Land Survey corners by using software programs to perform survey closures, adjustments and create, combine and/or store files in a data base environment.
 C. Collect coordinates by digitizing and operating interactive programs for computing the positions of corners from topographic maps.
 D. Use computer/plotter/digitizer or other drafting tools to prepare graphics displays for use in planning survey data collection strategies.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your experience using Global Positioning Systems (GPS) in construction, land, legal location, or other surveys:
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


10.
Please check each of the following land records and/or documents that you have researched.
 A. Land Office Plats
 B. Land Office Field Notes
 C. Federal Agency Records
 D. State or County Agency Records
 E. Recorded Survey Maps
 F. Legal Descriptions contained in deeds
 G. Subdivision Maps
 H. Right-of-Way Maps
 I. Unrecorded Survey Maps
 J. Master Title Plats (MTP`s)
 K. Private surveys
 L. Trust Land Records
 M. None of the above


11.
I interpret the following land status records to do research for surveys:
 A. Master Title Plats
 B. Historical indices
 C. Original Patents
 D. County assessor`s plats
 E. Property descriptions
 F. Legal land descriptions
 G. Land status plats
 H. Tract books
 I. Survey plats
 J. Survey notes
 K. Deeds
 L. None of the above


12.
Indicate the level of your ability to interpret survey plats and notes either from the government or private sector.
 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have used professional knowledge in this task on the job. My work in this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure
 I have performed work in this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed this task and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


13.
I use topographic maps to research the following information for cadastral survey purposes:
 A. Identify township and range.
 B. Find corner position locations.
 C. Locate map identification numbering system.
 D. Locate elevation and triangulation station identification.
 E. Scale latitude and longitude.
 F. Find best transportation routes.
 G. None of the above.


14.
I have experience providing technical information to the general public or co-workers in the following manner(s):
 A. To individuals on a one-on-one basis
 B. To small groups of less than 20
 C. To groups of more than 20
 D. At conferences or informal meetings
 E. In a training session
 F. None of the above


15.
From the answer choices below, select the one that best reflects your ability to communicate technical information.
 I have not presented or provided technical or non-technical information.
 I have presented or provided only non-technical information to persons on the job.
 I have made presentations or provided technical information on the job to supervisors, co-workers, and others.
 I have been acknowledged for my ability to present or provide technical and non- technical information to a variety of audiences.


16.
Select all the following areas where you have had experience in writing or preparing documents:
 A. General correspondence in draft format
 B. General correspondence in final format
 C. Information Bulletins
 D. Information Memorandums
 E. Reports in draft format
 F. Reports in final format
 G. Editing documents for technical correctness
 H. Editing documents for correct use of grammar
 I. I have drafted technical reports, written correspondence or memoranda.
 J. I have prepared field notes and inspection reports.
 K. I have prepared written findings for National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) documentation.
 L. I have taken formal training in written communication but have limited experience in writing.
 M. I have no formal experience or education in person-to-person communication or writing skills.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
I have experience safely operating a 4x4 vehicle on rough and rocky roads under adverse conditions, including snow, ice and mud.
 Yes
 No


18.
I have experience safely operating an ATV off road on rocky terrain.
 Yes
 No


19.
I am willing to work outdoors in inclement weather.
 Yes
 No


20.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and/or training driving stakes and cutting brush.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


21.
Select the statements that best describes your experience and/or training working in rough and/or steep terrain.
 A. I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 B. I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 C. I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 D. I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 E. I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task. Certification


22.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied anappointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙