Position Title
COST ACCOUNTANT
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ND-13057405-AR-26-032 (T5) Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Are you an onboard ND Army National Guard Federal Employee (T5/T32)?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions (6 items)
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in determining your eligibility to be considered for the position. For each of the statements below, select yes or no, and provide a narrative response that demonstrates your education, experience, and training.  Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume, transcripts, or application and information provided by your references.



1.
Please select the option which demonstrates your educational experience:

Degree: Accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included - or - was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to six hours of credit in business law.
OR
Combination of Education and Experience: At least four years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include ONE of the following:
A. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to six hours of business law;
B. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination;
C. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing. For example, completed 15 semester hours however, the school course work does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour degree requirement as defined above in paragraph one (subject: Degree), provided that:
(1) The applicant successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field for example, valuation engineering or financial institution examining;
(2) A panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors determined that the applicant demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and advancement levels that are normally associated with successful completion of the four-year course of study degree, as described above in Paragraph One; and,
(3) Except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I have an Accounting degree or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included - or - was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to six hours of credit in business law.
 I have at least four years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge, AND have twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality.
 I have at least four years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge, AND a certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination.
 I have at least four years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge, AND completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing as mentioned in 2C above.
 I do not meet any of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience at the GS 07 grade level which includes: 1) Working knowledge of accounting program principles, procedures, and standards; 2) Collaborate with finance, operations, and other departments to ensure accurate cost allocation; 3) Communicate findings and recommendations clearly from analyzing cost data?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade which includes: 1) Applying advanced accounting principles to cost allocation, budgeting, and financial reporting; 2) Maintain compliance with federal regulations and internal controls; 3) Analyze complex cost data to support decision-making?
 Yes
 No


For each of the statements below, please provide a narrative response that demonstrates your education, experience, and training.



4.
One year of experience at the GS 07 grade level with working knowledge of accounting program principles, procedures, and standards.


4a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


5.
One year of experience at the GS 07 grade level in collaborating with finance, operations, and other departments to ensure accurate cost allocation.


5a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


6.
One year of experience at the GS 07 grade level in communicating findings and recommendations clearly from analyzing cost data.


6a.
Explain how you have the experience with the above statement.


7.
One year of experience at the GS 09 grade level in applying advanced accounting principles to cost allocation, budgeting, and financial reporting.


7a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


8.
One year of experience at the GS 09 grade level in maintaining compliance with federal regulations and internal controls.


8a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


9.
One year of experience at the GS 09 grade level in analyzing complex cost data to support decision-making.


9a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


10.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙