Position Title
Security Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13000755 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Current CNIC Employees
1.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) with in 60 days showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Personnel Security Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have a minimum of 4 years of progressively responsible specialized experience (e.g. Initiating, reviewing, and submitting Background investigation Questionnaires for Tier 1 investigations, using DoD and or OPM personnel security systems, conducting internal reviews, assist visits, inspections, and spot checks to analyze and evaluate data, etc.) working in a Security Office requiring knowledge of personnel security procedures and security program relationships?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience with the Department of Defense (DOD), Information System for Security (DISS), the National Background Investigation Services (NBIS), and the electronic Application (eApp)?
 I have experience with all of the above.
 I have experience with two of the above.
 I have experience with one of the above.
 I have no experience with any of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing suitability determinations, fitness determinations, and/or personnel security determinations for federal employment?
 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have at least 2-5 years of experience but less than 5 years.
 I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
Please select the software you have experience using.  Select all that apply.
 A. Microsoft Excel
 B. Microsoft Word
 C. Microsoft PowerPoint
 D. Microsoft Outlook
 E. Adobe Reader and/or Professional
 F. I do not have any experience with any of the above.


5.
Select the statement applicable to you.
 I currently possess an active Top Secret clearance.
 I previously held a Top Secret clearance.
 I currently possess an active T3 or T4 investigation.
 I do not have ant of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙