Position Title
FUL - Engineering Equipment Operator
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYN-26-13056710-FUL-RS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 100 miles from the job announcement location.
Location: Sonny Bono Salton Sea National Wildlife Refuge Complex
                   906 W. Sinclair Rd. Calipatria, CA 92233

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Engineering Equipment Operator, WG-5716-08 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF THE POSITION WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for an Engineering Equipment Operator, WG-5716-08 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these experience requirements, you will not receive consideration for this position.

YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.


A WG-8 is expected to: 1) Operate gasoline- and diesel-powered heavy equipment and agricultural tractors with implements to perform earthmoving, grading, clearing, mowing, planting, and habitat or land-management tasks; 2) Inspecting, maintaining, and repairing equipment; 3) Performing basic facility and infrastructure maintenance; 4) Supporting wetland, vegetation, and water-management operations; 5) Safely applying herbicides or pesticides; 6) Follow instructions, planning work, identifying hazards, and maintaining required safety and maintenance records.
 I am an experienced Engineering Equipment Operator, and am considered an expert in performing the duties described above. I am consulted by other workers in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.
 I have performed the duties described above independently and as a regular part of my job, under normal supervision.
 I have performed the duties described above, but I have been closely supervised.
 My background is not described by any of the above statements.


VEHICLE OPERATION - POSSESSION OF A DRIVER'S LICENSE (SCREEN OUT)


2.
This position requires that the incumbent possess a valid state Driver's License. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how you meet this requirement. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess a valid state driver's license.
 I do not possess a valid state Driver's License but understand I must possess and maintain a valid State driver's license prior to operating Government-owned vehicles.
 I do not have a valid state Driver's License nor am I able to obtain one, as required above.


TWO-PAGE RESUME ACKNOWLEDGEMENT STATEMENT


3.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.
 Yes
 No


VERIFICATION STATEMENT


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙