Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
NED-26-AR-12987983-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jun 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Detroit, MI
 C. Overland, MO
 D. Buffalo, NY
 E. Cleveland, OH
 F. Pittsburgh, PA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


1.
Time-in-grade GS-09: At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-07 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Management Analyst position at the GS-09 level? Provide a non-award, non-General Adjustment SF-50. (You can provide your most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion, or Change to Lower Grade SF-50).

 I have held a GS-09 or higher grade.
 I have at least one year time-in-grade as a GS-07 grade level.
 No, I do not meet time -in-grade requirements.


2.
Time-in-grade GS-11: At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-09 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Management Analyst position at the GS-11 level? Provide a non-award, non-General Adjustment SF-50. (You can provide your most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion, or Change to Lower Grade SF-50).

 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have at least one year time-in-grade as a GS-09 grade level.
 No, I do no meet time-in-grade requirements.


3.
Time-in-grade GS-12: At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-11 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Management Analyst position at the GS-12 level? Provide a non-award, non-General Adjustment SF-50. (You can provide your most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion, or Change to Lower Grade SF-50).

 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have at least one year time-in-grade as a GS-11 grade level.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
Specialized Experience GS-09: To qualify at the GS-9 grade, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level or higher. Specialized experience may typically include but are not limited to general knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect processes and operations; and experience conducting detailed analyses of complex issues, broad understanding of organizational principles and project management, understanding of information exchange methods such as writing, presenting and utilizing various social media platforms.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a masters or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To? compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


5.
Specialized Experience GS-11: To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher. Specialized experience may typically include but are not limited to broad knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect processes and operations; and intermediate experience conducting detailed analyses of complex issues, broad understanding of organizational principles and project management, understanding of information exchange methods such as writing, presenting and utilizing various social media platforms.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or successful completion of three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or a LL.M., if related, and obtained in an accredited college or university, which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. To? compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate education more than the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-11
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
Specialized Experience GS-12: To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher. Specialized experience may typically include but are not limited to comprehensive knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect processes and operations; extensive experience conducting detailed analyses of complex issues, mastery of organizational principles and project management, expert skills information exchange utilizing various software, technological and social media platforms.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 or higher in the Federal Service.
 My experience is not described above.


Instructions: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
Certification: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 No, I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙