Position Title
Assistant Human Resources Officer (Senior Strategic Business Partner)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBGS-13059350-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. West Haven, CT
 B. Bedford, MA
 C. Boston, MA
 D. White River Junction, VT


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Please note that this position is only open to current permanent Legacy VISN 1 New England Health Care Systems Human Resources Management Service employees. Are you a current, permanent Legacy VISN 1 Human Resources Employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENT. Due to recent changes in the classification standards for Human Resources Specialist positions, applicants now must meet the basic minimum requirements set forth in the VA Handbook 5005 in order to qualify.

Please select the appropriate answer to the following question on how you are able to demonstrate your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Merit Based Method: must possess one year of specialized experience requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying basic HR concepts, laws, principles, policies, methods, practices and/or HR systems. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. This experience must be equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government.

Education Method: Successful completion of bachelor's degree (or higher).

Training-Based Method: The Training-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Six months of general experience, equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government, requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying laws, regulations, rules, principles, policies, methods, practices, supporting customers, communicating in writing and/or verbally and using various computer systems and office equipment in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions, plus the possession of one of the four training criteria.
Successful completion of at least 12 credit hours of college-level (associate degree or higher level) course work in any of the following types of fields, majors or programs or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs: HR (general), HR development, HR management, business, business management/administration, industrial relations, labor relations, industrial psychology, organizational psychology, organizational development, management, organizational behavior, pre-law/law, legal studies, health care management/administration, public administration, public policy, human services, leadership and humanities.
Successful completion of at least four formal training courses in HR. The focus of these HR courses will be in areas or those closely related to general HR, Federal HR, private sector/corporate HR or HR management. These courses must be offered through VA (i.e., Talent Management System courses), Federal agencies/departments (i.e., OPM Federal Human Resources Institute) or through external organizations (i.e., HR Certification Institute (HRCI®) Learning, HR University or Management Concepts). For the purpose of this standard, formal means interactive (online or in-person) training that includes communication between the participants and/or the instructor. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of successful completion by the training organization.
Successful completion of a formal certificate program in any of the areas (or related areas) listed in Training 1 (above) or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs. A formal certificate program for the purposes of this standard means a series or set of courses that provide a foundational or advanced knowledge. The courses must have been provided by an accredited college, university, organization or company and must have required assignments and/or other course work. Examples of providers include, but are not limited to, Purdue University, Global Cornell University (i.e., eCornell) or Wharton School. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of completion by the training organization.
Current professional HR certification through the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM), HRCI®, International Public Management Association (IPMA) (or Public Sector HR Association (PSHRA)), American Society for Health Care Human Resources Administration (ASHHRA) or an organization or company that has a formal structure and is nationally recognized by the profession.
 I meet the requirements based off of experience and as such I possess one year of experience that equips me with the knowledge of and/or skill in applying basic HR concepts, laws, principles, policies, methods, practices and/or HR systems.
 I meet the requirements based off on education and as such I possess a bachelor's degree or higher. (transcripts required)
 I meet the requirements based off of specialized training, and as such I meet the training requirements with six months of general experience that have equipped me with knowledge of and/or skill in applying laws, regulations, rules, principles, policies, methods, practices, supporting customers, communicating in writing and/or verbally and using various computer systems and office equipment in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions, and additionally I possess of one of the four training criteria listed in the job announcement.
 None of the above apply to me.


3.
In order to qualify at the GS-13 grade level, you must possess at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in Federal service and is directly related to the duties of this position. Examples of such specialized experience include, but are not limited to, the following: Directing and reviewing Human Resources functional programs (position management, compensation, staffing, employee & labor relations, processing & records, personnel security); serving as an expert advisor to top management on personnel laws, regulations, functions, policies, and procedures; reviewing newly issued regulations/directives and interpreting for incorporation into local policy; representing the facility at various hearings/arbitrations. It is preferable for such experience to have been performed for a network or multi-location organization. OR

Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: knowledge of experience in recruitment and placement policies and regulations; training subordinate staff in recruitment and placement policies and procedures; plans and directs subordinate staff providing guidance and decisions in complex HR Situations.

PLEASE NOTE - THIS EXPERIENCE MUST BE REFLECTED IN YOUR RESUME IN ORDER FOR YOU TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED. BE DETAILED IN DESCRIBING PREVIOUS WORK EXPERIENCE.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience (AS DESCRIBED IN THE QUALIFICATIONS SECTION OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT) that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and is related to the work of this position.
 I have a combination of successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: knowledge of experience in recruitment and placement policies and regulations; training subordinate staff in recruitment and placement policies and procedures; plans and directs subordinate staff providing guidance and decisions in complex HR Situations.
 I do not meet either of the qualifications listed above.


4.
In order to qualify at the GS-14 grade level, you must possess at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in Federal service and is directly related to the duties of this position. Examples of such specialized experience include, but are not limited to, the following: Directing and reviewing Human Resources functional programs (position management, compensation, staffing, employee & labor relations, processing & records, personnel security); serving as an expert advisor to top management on personnel laws, regulations, functions, policies, and procedures; reviewing newly issued regulations/directives and interpreting for incorporation into local policy; representing the facility at various hearings/arbitrations. It is preferable for such experience to have been performed for a network or multi-location organization. OR

Applicants may also combine education and specialized experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of the successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Serves as an authoritative advisor on staffing policies in accordance with the United States Code, Code of Federal Regulations, VA Handbooks and Directives, and related guidance. Instructs and oversees subordinate staff in the effective use of VA HRIS systems and applications (such as HR Smart and USA Staffing). Provides comprehensive administrative guidance and technical direction for federal recruitment and placement activities. Conducts audits and appraises performance of Human Resources staff to ensure compliance with all federal and VA laws and regulations. Oversees and ensures that all work assignments within the human resources section are executed accurately and in accordance with established standards. Performs a wide range of leadership functions to guarantee that organizational objectives are met efficiently.

PLEASE NOTE - THIS EXPERIENCE MUST BE REFLECTED IN YOUR RESUME IN ORDER FOR YOU TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED. BE DETAILED IN DESCRIBING PREVIOUS WORK EXPERIENCE.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience (AS DESCRIBED IN THE QUALIFICATIONS SECTION OF THIS ANNOUNCEMENT) that is equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level and is related to the work of this position.
 I have a combination of the successful completion of a graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Serves as an authoritative advisor on staffing policies in accordance with the United States Code, Code of Federal Regulations, VA Handbooks and Directives, and related guidance. Instructs and oversees subordinate staff in the effective use of VA HRIS systems and applications (such as HR Smart and USA Staffing). Provides comprehensive administrative guidance and technical direction for federal recruitment and placement activities. Conducts audits and appraises performance of Human Resources staff to ensure compliance with all federal and VA laws and regulations. Oversees and ensures that all work assignments within the human resources section are executed accurately and in accordance with established standards. Performs a wide range of leadership functions to guarantee that organizational objectives are met efficiently.
 I do not meet the qualifications listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙