Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Regional Technical Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12825816-26-SNS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 10, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements   Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Name of Institution
City and State
Degree
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification: Do you currently possess one of the options below?
(a) Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
(b) Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
(c) Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified indicate N/A.
Type of Certification(s) and numbers
Month and Year Certified/Expected Certification Date
Accrediting Body


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12), which is directly related to the position to be filled? Examples include, but are not limited to: Knowledge and understanding of concepts, principles, methodology of medical laboratory technology, regulatory and accrediting agency requirements, and pertinent statistics sufficient to perform complex diagnostic tests; Instructing newly hired clinical laboratory scientists and clinical pathology residents in proper performance of tests and applications of laboratory procedures; Advise on alternate testing to overcome ambiguities in the clinical diagnoses and analyzes emerging trends and technology to adopt appropriate methods and testing; Providing guidance and technical direction to accomplish the work of a clinical laboratory and specific sections; Develop policies, precedents, regulatory, licensing, and accrediting requirements to establish, monitor, and maintain the specialized testing; Training and competency assessment of staff and students within the area assigned.
 Yes
 No


5.
In addition to meeting the experience for the GS-13 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
(A) Knowledge of regulatory and accrediting agency requirements, concepts, principles, and practices of medical technology sufficient to perform the full range of duties involved in planning, coordinating, and evaluating laboratory services.
(B) Knowledge of compliance requirements sufficient to provide direction for complex diagnostic testing.
(C) Knowledge of laboratory information systems to accomplish diagnostic laboratory work and quality assurance.
(D) Skill in evaluating, interpreting, and teaching others to use quality control procedures to monitor variables that affect quality of services and implement corrective actions.
(E) Ability to apply laws, policies, precedents, regulatory, licensing, and accrediting requirements to establish, monitor, and maintain the specialized testing.
(F) Ability to develop new test procedures and modify existing procedures and methods to resolve problems relative to complex and difficult situations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙