Position Title
FFSP Counseling & Advocacy Program (CAP) Supervisor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12946743 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Interdisciplinary Counseling Advocacy and Prevention (CAP) Clinical Supervisor position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Basic Requirements: 0101
which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have none of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirements: 0180
Do you have a doctoral degree (Ph.D or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology AND 5 years of specialized experience.  NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.

Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 5 years of specialized experience. NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 

 

 Yes
 No


4.

Do you possess at least two (2) years of experience working in the field of child abuse and domestic abuse?
 

 

 Yes
 No


5.

Which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 

 

 

 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent
 Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.

Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 

 

 

 

 

 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have two (2) years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification?
 Yes
 No


8.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for this position, do you have at least 5 years' specialized experience in providing clinical counseling in the areas of suicide risk assessment and safety planning and clinical case management?
 Yes
 No


9.
How many years' experience do you have performing the full range of administrative supervisory duties (such as assigning work to subordinates based on priorities; developing and evaluating subordinate employees; interviewing candidates for positions; recommending appointment, promotion, or reassignment; and effecting disciplinary measures)?
 I have 5+ years' experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


10.
How many years' experience do you have providing non-medical clinical services using various counseling approaches such as behavior modification, client-centered, rational-emotive, family systems, brief solution-focused, and reality therapies?
 I have 7+ years' experience with the above.
 I have 5 to 7 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙