Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
OMAO-26-12929879-CTAP/ICTAP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)? This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference.
Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
ZA-3: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Management & Program Analyst, ZA-0343-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in project planning by monitoring project milestones, or reporting on project status; Analyzing program operations for effectiveness and improvements; and Serving as a point of contact for program logistics.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Assessment 2
1.
When planning projects or program activities to support aviation and uncrewed systems functions, what is the most critical technical priority to analyze.

 Relying solely on historical, manual data collection methods without integrating new statistical models.
 Delegating all project planning to external contractors to avoid internal accountability.
 Continually analyzing and evaluating the assigned program on a quantitative and qualitative basis for the effectiveness and efficiency of overall plans and procedures, and recommending systemic adjustments.
 Focusing on immediate funding rather than the long-term effectiveness of strategies and improvement initiatives.


2.
What high-level considerations are most crucial to analyze during missions to support uncrewed exploration, research, and/or science?

 Ensuring that missions are executed as they were in previous decades to ensure mission success
 Evaluating administrative and programmatic issues, evaluating customer concerns, and identifying benchmarking opportunities for continuous improvement to provide management with adaptation recommendations.
 Minimizing communication with assigned customers to expedite the data-gathering process.
 Tracking and communicating the successful outcomes of a mission while ensuring that adverse trends or risks are monitored.


3.
In the uncrewed systems environment, which of the following elements is the most critical to support the project management when developing new technologies that will be used for the collection of scientific data?

 Bypassing internal controls to speed up the technological development timeline.
 Coordinating risk assessments, internal review scheduling, root-cause analysis, and corrective action tracking while assisting in the implementation of milestones.
 Focusing primarily on uncrewed hardware procurement and delegating the administrative policies governing them.
 Leaving the resolution of difficult and complex procedural issues to top management officials rather than advising them.


4.
In the testing and evaluation of various types of uncrewed systems as a management and program analyst, what would be the primary metric you would gauge for success?

 The physical flight time of the uncrewed system regardless of the quality of the data gathered.
 The sheer volume of raw data collected during testing, without descriptive statistics.
 Feedback from the scientific community and users of the data, as well as operational inputs from the team that will be utilizing the hardware.
 The ability to operate the systems without limited human input


5.
When tracking program and/or project data to report programmatic activities and performance in uncrewed systems, what is the most effective way to communicate information to senior management?

 Utilizing enterprise tools like relational databases and multi-dimensional models to prepare factual data, briefing materials, and special reports for use by higher headquarters.
 Submitting raw data sets directly to senior leadership for their own interpretation.
 Relying entirely on verbal updates during staff visits without an established reporting methodology.
 Withholding statistical and comparative analyses since it is likely too technical for senior leadership.


6.
As a management and program analyst which of the following budgetary documents would you use to ensure a program is funded using appropriated funds?

 Documents governed by the Federal budget process, to include the President's Budget, House and Senate budget guidance, and other documents issued by the Office of Management and Budget.
 Internal divisional spreadsheets that are published by Department of Commerce financial units.
 Unofficial ad hoc queries that estimate future funding without relying on established policy.
 Risk assessment schedules that focus on hardware rather than the budgetary directives of the Department.


7.
What are some of the governing bodies that you would need to be familiar with as your role of a uncrewed systems advisor?

 Local municipal aviation authorities and private drone hobbyist associations.
 The governing Department, Agency, and the Federal Aviation Administration
 International uncrewed systems manufacturing boards.
 Independent, non-governmental environmental watchdog agencies.


8.
What is the federal government's role when it comes to working with the private sector in evaluating new commercial off the shelf technologies?

 Adopting all new commercial technologies immediately without programmatic evaluation.
 Interpreting new or established policy and regulations to determine their impact on mission operations, and advising management on the evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of the hardware.
 Outsourcing the risk assessment and corrective action planning to the private sector.
 Avoiding commercial off-the-shelf technologies completely to rely solely on internally developed or custom-built systems to meet the Agency’s needs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired. I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙