Position Title
Principal Deputy Associate General Counsel (CMS Division)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-OGC-ES-26-12908974 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Chicago, IL
 E. Baltimore, MD
 F. Kansas City, MO
 G. Philadelphia, PA


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government? Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a former career SES member who has completed an SES probationary period and left the SES under circumstances that did not make you ineligible for reinstatement (e.g., poor performance or disciplinary reasons)?
(If yes, must submit a SF-50 showing validation of eligibility for reinstatement)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a SES Candidate Development Program (SCDP) Graduate who was selected through at least civil service-wide competition for the CDP and the QRB has already certified your ECQs?

(If yes, must submit SCDP Certificate validating certification of your ECQs)
 Yes
 No


4.
Describe your experience providing legal advice and leadership in federal healthcare and administrative law matters. In your response, address your experience with regulatory practice and complex federal litigation; advising senior officials in high-visibility policy environments; shaping regulatory or litigation strategy; evaluating legal and reputational risk; and briefing executive leadership on sensitive, high-stakes matters under tight timelines. Provide specific examples and describe your role and the outcomes.

 Demonstrates solid experience in relevant legal areas, including regulatory or litigation matters. Provides examples of advising senior officials and contributing to strategic decisions. Shows ability to evaluate legal risk and brief leadership on significant matters.
 Demonstrates general legal experience with limited or indirect involvement in federal healthcare, administrative, regulatory, or litigation matters. Provides limited examples of advising senior leadership or shaping strategy in high-stakes environments.
 Demonstrates extensive experience in federal healthcare law, administrative law, regulatory practice, and complex federal litigation. Provides multiple, specific examples of advising senior officials on major regulatory, litigation, or program integrity matters. Shows clear evidence of shaping legal strategy, assessing legal and reputational risk, and delivering decisive recommendations in high-pressure, high-visibility environments.
 I do not have the demonstrated experience.


5.
Which of the following best describes your experience providing executive legal leadership and strategic oversight related to the interpretation, application, and enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations governing programs and legal activities?
 I have led significant legal functions involving interpretation, application, and enforcement of federal laws and regulations. I have supervised attorneys or legal staff, set priorities, and ensured legal sufficiency of program actions. I have coordinated with other federal agencies or stakeholders (e.g., DOJ or HHS components) on legal matters and advised senior leadership on legal risks and strategy.
 I have provided legal analysis or advisory services related to federal laws, regulations, or program requirements within a defined subject matter area. My role primarily involved interpreting and applying statutes or regulations, with limited responsibility for executive-level strategy, interagency coordination, or organizational leadership of attorneys.
 I have served in an executive legal leadership role with enterprise-wide responsibility for directing legal strategy, policy interpretation, and enforcement activities governing CMSD or similarly complex federal programs. I have led and managed a cadre of attorneys and support staff; set strategic priorities; ensured legal sufficiency and compliance with governing statutes and regulations; and represented senior Department leadership in high-level engagements with DOJ, other Federal agencies, multilateral organizations, or external stakeholders. I have exercised sound executive judgment, diplomacy, and adherence to the highest ethical standards of public service.
 I do not have the demonstrated experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I understand I must upload a 2-page resume, copy of unofficial law school transcripts, copy of active bar membership, and any other required supporting documentation by the closing date to receive consideration for this vacancy announcement. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


7.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume and accompanying documentation. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge, skill, and abilities as required in the vacancy announcement, including evidence of the Professional Technical Qualifications (PTQs) listed in the announcement. I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


8.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙