Position Title
Land Surveyor
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13077853 DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
A senior Land Surveyor, GS-12, needs to possess or obtain licensure within 12-months from the date of appointment and maintain licensure as a Professional Land Surveyor. Do you have or are you willing to obtain the appropriate certification and/or licensure as required by this position within 12 months from the date of appointment and/or promoted to the GS-12 position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-7/9/11/12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis. My civil engineering major included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in land surveying or civil engineering, as described in paragraph A, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a current registration as a land surveyor in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia obtained by written examination under conditions outlined in the National Council of Engineering Examiners (NCEE) Unified Model Law for Registration of Surveyors. (Note: You must attach a copy of your registration obtained based on successful completion of the written examinations.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience in at least 2 of the following areas: (1) topographic surveying, (2) bathymetric surveying, (3) mapping, (4) mathematical computations, (5) assist with marking, investigation, and reestablishment of land and property boundaries, and (6) provide input for plats and legal descriptions for tracts of land. (At least two must be well documented in your resume to be considered for this position).
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as Land Surveying. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience in at least 3 of the following areas: (1) topographic surveying, (2) bathymetric surveying, (3) mapping, (4) mathematical computations, (5) assist with marking, investigation, and reestablishment of land and property boundaries, and (6) provide input for plats and legal descriptions for tracts of land. (At least three must be well documented in your resume to be considered for this position).
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Land Surveying. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience in at least 4 of the following areas: (1) topographic surveying, (2) bathymetric surveying, (3) mapping, (4) mathematical computations, (5) assist with marking, investigation, and reestablishment of land and property boundaries, and (6) provide input for plats and legal descriptions for tracts of land. (At least four must be well documented in your resume to be considered for this position).
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Land Surveying. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience in at least 5 of the following areas: (1) topographic surveying, (2) bathymetric surveying, (3) mapping, (4) mathematical computations, (5) marking, investigation, and reestablishment of land and property boundaries, and (6) providing for plans/plats and legal descriptions for tracts of land. (At least five must be well documented in your resume to be considered for this position).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙