Position Title
Kinesiotherapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13005065-26-SJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Kinesiotherapist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about basic requirements, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your education and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in written and spoken English in order to meet the basic requirement of this position.

Are you proficient in the spoken and written English Language?
 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION: You must meet at least one of the requirements below. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
Please select one option from the following:
 I have a Bachelor's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Program, with a concentration/emphasis in Kinesiotherapy.
 I have a Bachelor's degree or higher with a concentration/emphasis in Kinesiotherapy or Exercise Science related field and registered as a Kinesiotherapist in good standing with the COPSKT.
 I have a Master's degree in Exercise Science, Kinesiology, Human Performance or a related field, which has been approved by COPSKT and a certificate verifying completion of a Center of Excellence (COE) Kinesiotherapy clinical training program.
 I do not meet any of the above education requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Registration: Do you possess a registration in kinesiotherapy in good standing with the COPSKT?
 Yes
 No


4.
Exception. Non-registered applicants at the GS-7 and GS-9 level who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate kinesiotherapist under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(a)(1)(B). Pursuant to 38 U.S.C § 7405(c)(2)(B), the appointment cannot exceed two years if the non-registered applicant's registration is pending with the COPSKT.

Do you meet this requirement? In all cases kinesiotherapists must actively pursue meeting registration starting from the date of appointment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Experience, GS-9 Kinesiotherapist Level-One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7) or education equivalent to two full years of [progressively higher level] graduate education or a master's degree [from a university or college in the field of kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field.]

Also, the candidate must demonstrate the following:
(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of kinesiotherapy.
(b) Knowledge of assistive devices to make recommendations, including fit and function of assistive devices [with the ability to recognize appropriate prosthetic/orthotic devices for the patient.
(c) Knowledge of evaluation and assessment tools] in applying therapeutic techniques.
(d) Skill in instructing patients and families in a [therapeutic] exercise program.

Do you possess the above experience as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Experience, GS-11 Kinesiotherapist Level-One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9) or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree in kinesiotherapy or an exercise science related field.

Also, the candidate must demonstrate the following:
(a) Communicates and coordinates with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professions to facilitate the multidisciplinary treatment process].
(b) Knowledgeable of evidence-based kinesiotherapy to provide skilled rehabilitation interventions to a wide variety of patients having diverse and multiple disabilities.
(c) Conduct independent assessments using highly specialized evaluations and diagnostic tests.
(d) Knowledgeable of learning principles, behavioral intervention, and innovational] techniques for patient and caregiver education.
(e) Provide assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of non-standard methods and techniques.
(f) Provide clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment and/or continuation of treatment.

Do you possess the above experience as described above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙