Position Title
Park Ranger (General) (SEASONAL)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
COTEMP-26-12855481-LJL Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Rocky Mountain Districe, Canon City, CO
 B. Southwest District, Dolores, CO
 C. Upper Colorado River District, Grand Junction, CO
 D. Southwest District, Gunnison, CO
 E. Northwest District, Kremmling, CO
 F. Southwest District, Montrose, CO
 G. Upper Colorado River District, Silt, CO


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Only the first two pages of the resume will be used to determine eligibility/qualifications. The first two pages of my resume contains the required information to qualify for the position; I understand that any additional information will not be reviewed.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Park Ranger (General) (Not a law enforcement position), GS-0025-05/07 position with the Bureau of Land Management. Please answer the following questions as part of your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Park Ranger (General) work at the GS-5 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 I have one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service that included performing the following duties: (1) Working as a park guide or tour leader; (2) archeological or historical preservation research work; (3) forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; (4) management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations.
 I have successfully completed a four-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with at least 24 semester hours of related course work, such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources related to duties performed by a Park Ranger. I will provide a copy of my transcripts to support this.
 I have a combination of successfully completed post-high school education (in excess of the first 60 semester/90 quarter hours) and specialized experience. The combined total equals 100%. The education was obtained in an accredited college or university. I will provide a copy of my official transcripts to support this.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes the experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Park Ranger work at the GS-7 level or equivalent.
 I have one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service that included performing the following duties: (1) Park guide or tour leader; (2) archaeological or historical preservation research work; (3) forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation or conservation area; (4) management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; (5) planning day to day operation of a recreation area providing such facilities as camping, water sports, picnic areas, or coordinating routine activities with maintenance personnel; (6) advising visitors concerning safety, fire prevention, and proper and authorized uses of recreational facilities.
 I have one full year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of with course work in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources.
 I have a combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the work of the position plus specialized experience to equal 100%. The education was obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I meet the Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) with a bachelor's degree. S.A.A. must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled based on the courses listed above for Education.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one answer that best describes your experience working in an outdoor recreational program.
 I apply outdoor recreational principles in a public lands environment. My experience includes working with resource professionals at the Federal, State and local levels to identify and resolve recreational resource concerns.
 I assist Park Rangers, Outdoor Recreation Planners and other professionals with managing recreational activities.
 I have knowledge of outdoor recreational management principles through formal education, but I have not applied them on the job.
 None of the above.


4.
Select each of the following that describes your experience with providing information/instructions to the general public regarding use of recreation sites.
 A. I meet with the public to educate users on conservation practices such as "Tread Lightly" and "Leave-No-Trace" principles.
 B. I resolve issues regarding conflicting uses among public land users.
 C. I counsel public land users when they are not practicing appropriate behavior.
 D. I conduct nature hikes or similar types of programs for visitors to parks, monuments, campgrounds, or other similar locations.
 E. I answer general questions about the use of recreational facilities/sites.
 F. I provide information to the general public in any setting.
 G. None of the above.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your communication skills to interact with people who have diverse interests and backgrounds
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.


6.
Select the one response that best describes your experience maintaining signs in an outdoor recreational area.
 I coordinate with resource area staff in the development and implementation of a sign program. Experience includes sign design, taking inventory, deciding location, purchasing signs/items, installing signs, and maintaining signs.
 I serve as a crew leader responsible for ensuring signs are installed and maintained in an outdoor recreational area.
 I assist with the installation and maintenance of signs in an outdoor recreational area.
 I have knowledge of signs maintenance in a resource area because of classroom study, but no field experience.
 None of the above


7.
Identify your proficiency in using basic carpentry skills to perform maintenance work in campsites
 I have not performed this task or acquired this competency, but am willing to learn.
 I have received training or education in this task or competency.
 I have performed this task, or used this competency, in paid or unpaid work experience.
 I have performed this task or used this competency numerous times and am highly proficient at applying it to work situations


8.
Select the one answer that best describes your experience using hand and power tools.
 I use hand and power tools to independently construct and repair recreational facilities without supervision.
 I use hand and power tools to assist with the construction and repair of recreational facilities under the direction of a supervisor.
 I use hand and power tools for basic carpentry projects and/or repairs, but I have not maintained recreational facilities.
 I have not used hand or power tools, but I am willing to learn.


9.
Select the one answer that best describes your experience managing an outdoor recreation program.
 I supervise or lead Park Rangers, Recreational Technicians, seasonal/temporary employees and volunteers in a resource area such as a park, trailhead, campground, or undeveloped/backcountry area to ensure area is operationally and administratively maintained.
 I supervise or lead seasonal/temporary employees and volunteers or worked as a crew leader at a park, campground, or undeveloped/backcountry area to ensure area is operationally maintained. Experience includes completion of small construction projects; repairing signs; inventory and storage of materials and supplies.
 I provide guidance to co-workers and others at developed recreational areas on how to construct, repair or maintain the recreational resources.
 None of the above.


10.
Select the one answer that best describes your experience with geospatial data collection systems (e.g., GIS, tablet-based apps such as Survey 1-2-3, phone apps).
 I use geospatial data collection systems and topographic maps to inventory and locate public land boundaries, recreation sites, trails, routes, or signs to identify location of facilities on public lands.
 I use geospatial data collection systems and/or topographic maps to inventory and locate landmarks in a field office or similar work environment, and/or as part of a graduate level course work.
 I use geospatial data collection systems as part of an undergraduate college course and/or for personal experience/benefit.
 None of the above.


11.
Select the statement that describes your experience identifying conflicting recreational uses in a resource area and recommending corrective action.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I have experience operating an all-terrain and/or utility terrain vehicle.
 Yes
 No


13.
I have experience hiking over rough terrain to accomplish work assignments.

 Yes
 No


14.
Identify the following tasks related to interpretive center services that you have performed on the job (Select all that apply).

 A. Assist in developing interpretive talks by conducting research of topics using records, books, files and/or interviews.
 B. Assist in developing educational talks by conducting research of topics using records, books, files and/or interviews.
 C. Select and organize material to fit the purpose of an interpretive program.
 D. Select and organize educational material to fit the intended audience.
 E. None of the above


15.
From the following list of tasks, select all that describe your experience and/or training in designing written interpretative and educational materials.

 A. I have designed the layout and written the text for announcements and posters promoting special events, educational, and/or interpretive programs.
 B. I have designed the layout and written the text for informational brochures about natural and cultural subject matter for public use (i.e., taxonomic keys, plant identification cards).
 C. I have designed the layout and written the text for interpretive or educational exhibits about natural or cultural resources that were viewed by the general public. (Example: I created an interpretive exhibit about tide pool stewardship for a campus Earth Day event.)
 D. I have designed and created other media and props used in educational programs, interpretive programs, or theatrical presentations (worksheets, charts, maps, etc.)
 E. None of the above.


16.
I have a valid driver's license or can obtain one within 30 days of hire.

 Yes
 No


17.
I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI.

 Yes
 No


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙