Position Title
Summer 2026 Legal Intern (Juris Doctorate)
Agency
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts
Announcement Number
26-OGC-12900057 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an internship position with the federal government. Applicants must have demonstrated experience as listed below. This requirement is according to the AO Classification, Compensation, and Recruitment Systems which include interpretive guidance and reference to the OPM Operating Manual for Qualification Standards for General Schedule Positions. WHEN MANDATORY NARRATIVE RESPONSES ARE REQUIRED, PLEASE DO NOT DUPLICATE INFORMATION YOU HAVE ALREADY PROVIDED IN YOUR RESUME AS A RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION. WE ARE SEEKING AN ELABORATION OF THOSE DUTIES AND SKILLS YOU HAVE MENTIONED WHICH ADDRESS THE QUESTION MORE FULLY. THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON YOUR EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION AS IT RELATES TO THE QUESTION. FAILURE TO DO THIS WILL RESULT IN YOUR BEING CONSIDERED AS INELIGIBLE.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be available to work in Washington, DC during the period of this internship. Are you available to work in the Washington, DC region during the duration outlined for this internship?

All internships at the AO are on-site at the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building (TMFJB) and telework is not permitted.

 Yes
 No


2.
This position is open to current law students only. Are you currently attending law school?

 Yes
 No


3.
In the space provided below, please tell us what school you are currently attending. (Please write the full name of the university - for example, Howard University and not Howard U.)



4.
In the space provided below, please tell us your anticipated graduation date. (As an example, please write using the following structure: Spring 2025, Winter 2026, etc.)



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
All students in the AO Internship Program must be in good academic standing, maintaining a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Do you currently have a GPA of 3.0 or higher? (You are required to upload a copy of your transcript as proof of eligibility during this application process.)

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have experience in compiling data, conducting research, and drafting memoranda and other legal documents?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please submit a narrative statement in the space provided below addressing your working knowledge in compiling data, conducting research, and drafting memoranda and other legal documents . THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your response to 500 characters or less.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Do you have a working knowledge of legal research platforms such as Westlaw and LexisNexis?
 Yes
 No


9.
Please submit a narrative statement in the space provided below addressing your working knowledge of legal research platforms such as Westlaw and LexisNexis  (i.e. describe some of the things you can do/skills that you may possess). THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your responses to 500 characters or less.


10.
Please submit a narrative statement describing, from your perspective, why this internship program is important to you. THIS IS A MANDATORY REQUIREMENT. Please limit your responses to 500 characters or less.



For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


11.
Which level description best describes your ability to communicate effectively other than in writing?

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


12.
How did you hear about this job announcement?

 USAJobs
 Handshake
 LinkedIn
 Other


13.
If other was selected, please tell us how you heard about this job announcement.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
I understand that failure to provide a written statement ("See Resume" or other non-descriptive response is not sufficient), for each essay question could result in non-consideration for this position).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙