Position Title
Operations Coordinator
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCNA-26-12939871-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


2.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Operations Coordinator position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Coordinator at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 B. I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 D. I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 E. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Which of the following administrative tasks have you performed within an office setting? Select all that apply.

 A. I have coordinated requests for office resources.
 B. I have assisted with onboarding new employees.
 C. I have ordered office supplies.
 D. I have assisted employees with entry of time and attendance.
 E. I have assisted employees with making official travel arrangements.
 F. I have not performed the tasks listed above.


3.
Which of the following best describes your experience working with managers and employees at various levels within an organization?

 I have developed effective working relationships with employees within my assigned office.
 I have developed effective working relationships with managers and employees within my assigned office.
 I have developed effective working relationships with employees inside and out my assigned office.
 I have developed effective working relationships with managers and employees inside and out my assigned office.
 I do not any of the experience described above.


4.
What is your highest level of leadership experience?

 I have reviewed work of less experienced employees and provided feedback.
 I have provided oversight on the progress of a project.
 I have led a small work group within my office.
 I have led a work group consisting of employees from more than one office.
 I have held a team leader position performing limited managerial duties.
 I have led a staff in a formal supervisory or managerial position.
 I do not possess the above leadership experience.


5.
Select the statement(s) that describe your experience training and developing a support staff. Select all that apply.

 A. I have trained a new employee on office procedures.
 B. I have coordinated or arranged training within an office.
 C. I have presented training to an office staff, including answering non-technical and technical questions.
 D. I have identified training deficiencies among a staff and developed formal training to address such deficiencies.
 E. I do not have experience training and developing a support staff.


6.
Which of the following best describes your experience independently organizing, coordinating, and prioritizing a variety of work activities?

 I have experience independently organizing and prioritizing my own workload.
 I have experience independently prioritizing my workload, as well as coordinating work with other offices.
 I have experience coordinating work with other offices and providing direction to legal support staff.
 I have experience providing direction to a legal support staff and redistributing workload among staff as needed.
 I have experience redistributing workload among staff and revising work processes to resolve procedural problems.
 I do not have experience independently organizing, coordinating, and prioritizing work activities.


7.
Which of the following office coordination activities have you performed? Select all that apply.

 A. I have provided input on personnel actions such as promotions, reassignments, or awards.
 B. I have participated in the hiring process of new support employees.
 C. I have redistributed workload to meet changing deadlines.
 D. I have assigned work to legal support staff.
 E. I have monitored the status of work assignments.
 F. I have identified training needs for employees.
 G. I have recommended solutions to resolve workflow problems.
 H. I have evaluated the efficiency of office operations.
 I. I have coordinated with other offices when additional assistance is needed to complete a project.
 J. I have not performed the tasks listed above.


8.
Which of the following tasks have you performed as a part of your job? Select all that apply.

 A. I have communicated with property or facilities management to resolve problems within the building.
 B. I have coordinated in-office deliveries with vendors.
 C. I have authored and presented briefings to employees and/or managers.
 D. I have coordinated legal support work services within an office.
 E. I have provided training on administrative procedures.
 F. I have answered legal support questions for staff.
 G. I have made formal presentations to employees or management.
 H. I have not performed the listed tasks.


9.
Select the written documents you have prepared. Select all that apply.

 A. I have provided written technical instruction to support staff regarding procedures and requirements for legal documents or cases.
 B. I have prepared periodic or annual reports.
 C. I have prepared written summaries of reports for management.
 D. I have composed original letters that require extensive knowledge of administrative or legal procedures.
 E. I have drafted standard operating procedures for an office.
 F. I have provided written guidance clarifying regulations or work processes.
 G. I have not performed the listed tasks.


10.
Which of the following legal support tasks have you performed? Select all that apply.

 A. I have prepared a variety of legal documents.
 B. I have trained others on preparing a variety of legal documents.
 C. I have reviewed employees? legal documents for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with policies and guidance.
 D. I have performed file and records management tasks within a legal office.
 E. I have assisted with trial preparation, such as preparing or ordering materials or supplies or setting up equipment.
 F. I have provided technical assistance on legal documents.
 G. I have answered legal support questions for staff regarding policies and procedures.
 H. I have not performed legal support tasks as listed above.


11.
Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing directives, guidelines, and/or office procedures?

 I have reviewed policy directives, guidelines, and/or office procedures to perform my job duties.
 I continually review policy directives, guidelines, and/or office procedures to stay abreast of amendments and ensure changes are implemented within my work products.
 I have analyzed and provided feedback to employees on changing directives, guidelines, and/or office procedures.
 I have provided instructions to employees and managers of changing directives, guidelines, and/or office procedures.
 I do not have experience performing this task.


12.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙