Position Title
Industry Economist (Direct Hire)
Agency
Federal Maritime Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12855391-26-CH Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Feb 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Assessment 1
1.
Are you a current or former Executive Branch political appointee who served on a political Schedule A or Schedule C appointment within the past 5 years? The answer to this question is required.


 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best describes your basic level of education for the Economist, GS-0110 series.
 I have successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree in economics that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting or calculus.
 I have a combination of education that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting or calculus AND experience that involves the use and understanding of economic principles and theories. Examples of qualifying experience include: (1) individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation; (2) supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or (3) teaching assignments in a college or university that included both class instruction in economics subjects and one of the following:(a) personal research that produced evidence of results, (b) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (c) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.
 I do not possess the basic education or experience described in the statements listed above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education for the Industry Economist, GS-0110-11.
 I have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience may have been demonstrated by performing duties such as: Conducting economic research for the evaluation /resolution issues and problems or Applying basic economic and quantitative analytical techniques and Support senior economist in developing guidelines to be used in analyzing agreements under the Shipping Act.
 I have completed 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in economics or a related field.
 Have a combination of specialized experience and education as described in A and B above.
 I do not have the level of specialized experience and/or education described in the statements above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education for the Industry Economist, GS-0110-12.
 I have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience may have been demonstrated by performing duties such as: conducting analyses for minor components of reports or preparing short memos or analyses and conducting standard statistical tests between means and between proportions.
 I do not have the level of specialized experience described in the statements above.


5.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and/or education for the Industry Economist, GS-0110-13.
 I have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience may have been demonstrated by performing duties, such as: Conducting analyses for entire, final reports (or significant subcomponents of major studies); initiating researching, planning, interpreting findings, and preparing results of analyses conducted, and utilizing standard econometric techniques (e.g., OLS) and software packages.
 I do not have the level of specialized experience described in the statements above.


6.
Do you meet one of the basic requirements below?

A. Degree: Economics, that includes at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus. 

B. Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 Yes, I have the education and/or combination of education and experience required.
 No, I do not have the required education and/or combination of education and experience.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.

Please upload free responses as a separate attachment.  All responses can be on 1 page.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.

Please upload free responses as a separate attachment.  All responses can be on 1 page.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.

Please upload free responses as a separate attachment.  All responses can be on 1 page.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.

Please upload free responses as a separate attachment.  All responses can be on 1 page.


11.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.



 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application and questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙