Position Title
Criminal Investigator- Direct Hire
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA12969168-DHA26-OIG Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please read the questions carefully. Responding "No" may result in loss of further consideration.


1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Jacksonville, FL
 B. Miramar, FL
 C. Des Moines, IA
 D. Lexington, KY
 E. Boston, MA
 F. New York, NY
 G. Cincinnati, OH
 H. Columbia, SC
 I. Memphis, TN
 J. Salt Lake City, UT


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Assessment 1


1.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the grade 13 position.
 I have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-12, or equivalent, performing One of the following: (1) Leading and managing a personal caseload containing multiple independent criminal investigations; (2) Testifying during criminal judicial proceedings (for example, grand jury, evidentiary hearings, trials); (3) Coordinating with prosecutors to present cases for prosecution, determine legal courses of action, or prepare for legal proceedings.
 My experience level is not described above.


2.
Please select the statement that best describes your eligibility under the age restriction for the federal law enforcement officer (FLEO) position.
NOTE: Your date of birth and preference eligibility will be verified. To receive preference eligibility, you must submit verification documentation (e.g., DD-214 or VA compensability letter). Please also note that you may be disqualified at any time during the process should it be determined that you will reach age 37 prior to appointment. (This does not apply to individuals currently employed in FLEO positions or preference eligible veterans.)

 I am a preference eligible veteran (5-point or 10-point).
 I currently serve in a federal law enforcement officer (FLEO) position with a mandatory retirement age of 57.
 I have previously served in a federal law enforcement officer (FLEO) position with a mandatory retirement age of 57.
 I am not a preference eligible veteran or a current/former federal law enforcement officer, BUT I am at least 21 years of age and not yet 37 years of age or older.
 None of the above.


Assessment 2


Please respond to the following questions regarding your prior training and experience. Please note there are two question types: 1) Single Select - you will select one response that best matches your highest level of experience, and 2) Select All That Apply - you may select multiple responses that align with your experience(s).


3.
Interview individuals (for example, suspects, witnesses, complainants, victims) to elicit information relevant to criminal investigations.

 I have no training or experience conducting interviews.
 I have received training on methods for conducting interviews.
 I have contributed to an interview by taking notes for a lead investigator.
 I have conducted an interview with a cooperative individual and was able to acquire information needed to further a criminal investigation.
 I have conducted an interview both with cooperative and uncooperative individuals and was able to acquire information needed to further a criminal investigation.


4.
Obtain sworn written or verbal statements from individuals (for example, suspects, witnesses, complainants, victims) to ensure legally binding accounts for investigative and legal outcomes.

 I have no training or experience obtaining sworn written or verbal statements from individuals.
 I have received training on methods for obtaining sworn written or verbal statements from individuals.
 I have obtained sworn written or verbal statements from individuals under the guidance of others.
 I have obtained sworn written or verbal statements from individuals without the guidance of others.
 I have mentored other investigators on methods for obtaining sworn written or verbal statements from individuals.


5.
Which of the following activities have you performed as part of the interviewing process? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Researching and analyzing background information prior to the interview
 B. Building rapport with individuals to elicit information during an interview
 C. Questioning the individual being interviewed on relevant areas of concern
 D. Listening to and evaluating what the interviewee says to gauge consistency of information
 E. Taking notes during the interview for future reference
 F. Writing reports to memorialize the interview
 G. None of the above


6.
Apprehend suspects using approved arrest techniques or procedures.

 I have no training or experience apprehending a suspect using approved arrest techniques or procedures.
 I have received training on apprehending a suspect using approved arrest techniques or procedures.
 I have assisted in the apprehension of a suspect using approved arrest techniques or procedures.
 I have independently planned and executed the apprehension of a suspect using approved arrest techniques or procedures.
 I have formally trained or mentored other investigators in the apprehension of suspects using approved arrest techniques or procedures.


7.
Interpret and apply laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures related to arrest techniques.

 I have no training or experience interpreting and applying laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures related to arrest techniques.
 I have received training on how to interpret and apply laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures related to arrest techniques.
 I have interpreted and applied laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures related to arrest techniques under the guidance of others.
 I have independently interpreted and applied laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures related to arrest techniques.
 I have formally trained or mentored other investigators on the interpretation and application of laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures related to arrest techniques.


8.
Which of the following activities have you performed in relation to executing an arrest? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Practicing application of reasonable use of force in a training environment
 B. Employing de-escalation techniques with hostile or distressed individuals
 C. Clearing the suspect’s location (for example, residence, business) at the time of arrest
 D. Handcuffing suspects
 E. Searching incident to arrest
 F. Transporting persons in custody using restraining devices
 G. Completing intake forms to process persons in custody
 H. None of the above


9.
Which of the following equipment have you carried when executing an arrest? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Body-worn camera
 B. Breaching tool (for example, ram, shield, Halligan)
 C. Bulletproof vest/body armor
 D. Communications device (for example, two-way radios, mobile devices)
 E. Firearm
 F. Intermediate weapon (for example, baton, pepper spray, taser)
 G. Means of restraint (for example, handcuffs, flex cuffs)
 H. None of the above


10.
Conduct criminal investigations adhering to laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures.

 I have no knowledge of the laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures relevant to conducting a criminal investigation.
 I have received training on the laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures relevant to conducting a criminal investigation.
 I have served as a team member on a criminal investigation, adhering to laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures.
 I have led a criminal investigation, adhering to laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures.
 I have provided guidance to others on the laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures relevant to conducting a criminal investigation.


11.
Advise a subject of their legal rights prior to questioning.

 I have no training or experience advising a subject of their legal rights prior to questioning.
 I have received training on advising a subject of their legal rights prior to questioning.
 I have advised a subject of their legal rights prior to questioning.
 I have advised subjects of their legal rights prior to questioning on multiple occasions.
 I have mentored other investigators on advising a subject of their legal rights prior to questioning.


12.
Obtain warrants from judges or magistrates to conduct an arrest.

 I have no training or experience obtaining an arrest warrant.
 I have received training on the process for obtaining an arrest warrant.
 I have drafted and sworn out an arrest warrant affidavit.
 I have drafted and sworn out an arrest warrant affidavit on multiple occasions.
 I have mentored other investigators on the process for obtaining an arrest warrant.


13.
Which of the following tasks have you led to prepare for the execution of an arrest warrant in accordance with applicable laws and regulations? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Conducting surveillance to establish necessary details for an arrest warrant operation
 B. Planning operational details of the arrest operation, including identifying resources required and potential risks involved
 C. Leading a pre-operation briefing prior to the arrest warrant execution
 D. None of the above


14.
Obtain warrants from judges or magistrates to search physical locations.

 I have no training or experience obtaining a search warrant.
 I have received training on the process for obtaining a search warrant.
 I have drafted and sworn out a search warrant affidavit.
 I have drafted and sworn out a search warrant affidavit on multiple occasions.
 I have mentored other investigators on the process for obtaining a search warrant.


15.
Which of the following tasks have you led to prepare for the execution of a search warrant in accordance with applicable laws and regulations? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Conducting surveillance to establish necessary details for a search warrant affidavit
 B. Planning operational details of the search effort, including identifying resources required and potential risks involved
 C. Leading a pre-operation briefing prior to the search warrant execution
 D. None of the above


16.
Execute search warrants in accordance with applicable laws and regulations to obtain evidence for investigations.

 I have no training or experience executing search warrants.
 I have received training on how to execute search warrants.
 I have been a member of a team that executed a search warrant.
 I have led a team that executed a search warrant.
 I have led an investigation or operation in which multiple search warrants were executed.


17.
Which of the following investigative activities have you performed in an electronic case management system? (Select all that apply)

 A. Conducting searches to cross-reference prior associations of subjects, victims, or other identifying information
 B. Opening cases or initiating requests to open cases
 C. Documenting subject, witness, or victim information
 D. Sending collateral assignments to team members
 E. Extracting relevant information from prior entries
 F. Drafting and submitting reports of investigation
 G. Documenting statistical accomplishments or judicial outcomes (for example, arrests, indictments, convictions, fines, restitutions, judgments)
 H. Closing cases or initiating requests to close cases
 I. None of the above


18.
Develop investigations by identifying and analyzing information from various sources (for example, open-source intelligence, internal databases, financial institutions).

 I have no training or experience developing an investigation.
 I have received training on how to develop an investigation.
 I have assisted with developing an investigation by reviewing information from various sources and reporting findings back to a lead Criminal Investigator.
 I have independently identified and analyzed information from various sources to develop an investigation involving a single subject.
 I have independently identified and analyzed information from various sources to develop an investigation involving multiple subjects.


19.
Evaluate the progress of criminal investigations, including adapting investigative plans to align with changing circumstances.

 I have no experience evaluating the progress of criminal investigations.
 I have evaluated the progress of a criminal investigation in which I was a team member and provided status updates to the lead investigator.
 I have evaluated the progress of a criminal investigation I was leading and sought advisement from a more experienced investigator or supervisor on how to respond to changing circumstances.
 I have evaluated the progress of a criminal investigation I was leading and independently made adjustments to the investigative plan in response to changing circumstances.
 I have mentored other investigators on how to adapt their criminal investigation plans in response to changing circumstances.


20.
Analyze information (for example, seized evidence, documents, statements, interviews) as part of a criminal investigation to identify potential illegal activity.

 I have no experience analyzing information as part of a criminal investigation.
 I have reviewed and evaluated information related to a criminal investigation to verify information that was believed to be true under the close guidance of a supervisor or experienced investigator.
 I have independently reviewed and evaluated information related to a criminal investigation to verify information that was believed to be true.
 I have reviewed and analyzed information related to a criminal investigation to draw factual inferences, identify relationships, or determine additional sources of information that were not previously known.
 I have mentored other investigators on techniques and best practices for analyzing information related to a criminal investigation.


21.
Conduct surveillance activities of persons, places, or operations to obtain or verify information.

 I have no training or experience conducting surveillance activities.
 I have received training on conducting surveillance activities.
 I have conducted either electronic or physical surveillance activities as part of investigative work.
 I have conducted both electronic and physical surveillance activities as part of investigative work.
 I have conducted electronic and physical surveillance activities and mentored other investigators on conducting surveillance activities.


22.
Which of the following have you lawfully searched as part of a criminal investigation or enforcement operation? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Electronic devices
 B. Individuals
 C. Residences
 D. Vehicles
 E. Business
 F. Federal workplace
 G. None of the above


23.
Which of the following evidence-related activities have you performed as part of a criminal investigation? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Taking photographs to document location, condition, packaging, or collection of evidence
 B. Seizing and cataloging evidence collected as part of a search
 C. Storing and maintaining evidence collected as part of a search
 D. Documenting evidence in a case management system
 E. Reviewing evidence to determine the impact on investigations
 F. Disposing of evidence after the required time
 G. None of the above


24.
Which of the following sources have you worked with to acquire information for a criminal investigation? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Complainants
 B. Confidential Informants
 C. Law enforcement databases (for example, National Crime Information Center [NCIC], National Law Enforcement Telecommunications Systems [NLETS], Financial Crimes Enforcement Network [FINCEN])
 D. Law enforcement entities (i.e., Federal, state, tribal, local)
 E. Open-source (for example, social media, websites)
 F. Commercial databases (for example, TransUnion TLO, CLEAR, LexisNexis)
 G. Victims
 H. Witnesses
 I. None of the above


25.
Conduct joint investigative operations with Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement agencies.

 I have no experience conducting joint investigative operations.
 I have participated in a limited role as part of a joint investigative operation, supporting a specific activity.
 I have served on a joint investigative team, supporting multiple components of a joint investigative operation.
 I have co-led a joint investigative operation with an investigator or officer at another law enforcement entity.
 I have led a joint investigative operation, overseeing efforts of both my organization and other law enforcement partners.


26.
Conduct undercover operations to advance criminal investigations.

 I have no training or experience on conducting an undercover operation.
 I have received training on conducting an undercover operation.
 I have participated in an undercover operation alongside a more experienced investigator.
 I have led or independently served in an undercover operation.
 I have managed all aspects of an undercover operation.


27.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙