Position Title
Public Notice - Accountant (Direct Hire)
Agency
Goddard Space Flight Center
Announcement Number
GSFC-26-DE-13001153-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marshall Space Flight Ctr, Huntsville, AL
 B. Armstrong Flight Research Ctr, Edwards AFB, CA
 C. Ames Research Ctr, Moffett Field, CA
 D. NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC
 E. Kennedy Space Ctr, Kennedy Space Center, FL
 F. Goddard Space Flight Ctr, Greenbelt, MD
 G. NASA Shared Services, Bay Saint Louis, MS
 H. Stennis Space Ctr, Stennis Space Center, MS
 I. Glenn Research Ctr, Cleveland, OH
 J. Johnson Space Ctr, Houston, TX
 K. Langley Research Ctr, Hampton, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12
13
14


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in accounting.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in business administration, finance, public administration, or related accounting field, that included 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in accounting (the credit hours requirement may include up to 6 semester hours or 9 quarter hours in business law).
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge, and have completed at least 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours in accounting or auditing (the credit hours requirement may include up to 6 semester hours or 9 quarter hours in business law).
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge, and have a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor obtained through written examination.
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge and: (1) I have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work (e.g., 15 semester hours) in accounting or auditing that was less than 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours; (2) I have worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field; (3) I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement what is normally associated with completion of a 4-year course of study as determined by a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors; and (4) I have fully met the specified requirements for this position based on my education, training, and experience with the exception of the credit hours requirement.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-09 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service that included: Performing operational accounting and financial management functions that includes reviewing and analyzing accounting transactions; Reconciling and interpreting accounting data and/or assisting with resolving variances; and Supporting various internal and external audits ensuring proper internal controls.
 I have completed all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in accounting or directly related field.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in accounting or directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Recording or controlling financial transactions related to areas of accounting such as accounts payable, cost accruals, travel, payroll, property; Reviewing processes and procedures to identify improvements that promote efficiencies and cost savings; Performing accounting data analysis or reconciliation.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in accounting or directly related field.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in accounting or directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Performing a broad range of operational accounting and financial management; Analyzing, reconciling, and interpreting accounting data; Performing research and responding to inquiries on a variety of accounting topics.
 I do not have the experience described above.


5.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Performing financial data analysis, processing transactions, reconciling and reviewing outputs in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or governmental accounting practices such as those established by Government Accountability Office (GAO), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Department of Treasury; Supporting financial and internal control audits, preparing documentation or providing recommendations to senior accountants/leaders; Gathering, organizing, and analyzing accounting data to identify problems utilizing accounting systems, taking appropriate action for corrective measures.
 I do not have the experience described above.


6.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Applying analytical techniques to identify and resolve complex accounting and systems issues; Working with senior level managers and external stakeholders to address and resolve financial management issues; and Overseeing or evaluating accounting functions, such as internal or external financial reporting, financial statement preparation, property, accounts payable, travel, payroll, cost accruals, and reimbursable activity.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Certification


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙