Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12937283-AF-26-108 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E5 in any branch of service and willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 193rd SOW
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 193 Special Operations Wing (This includes 193rd RSG, 193rd AOG, 211th EIS, 271st CCS, 201st RHS, 112th ACS, 203rd Weather Flight, 193rd SOW Det 1, 148th ASOS, PA ANG HQ DET 1)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training that has provided you with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications? Do you have experience in the use of hand tools and test equipment?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience using common hand tools to make mechanical repairs? Experience removing and installing aircraft parts, components and accessories with detailed guidance. Do you have experience in following detailed instructions in making routine, reoccurring repairs and modifications to aircraft parts, subassemblies and components, e.g. such as jacking and leveling aircraft, installing and adjusting engines, landing gear assemblies, instrument panels, and flight control systems?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Do you have experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification? Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow. Do you have the ability to instruct lower grade mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


4.
Are you related to anyone employed by this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙