Position Title
Staff Assistant
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-SPL-RDH-12951209 MPP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


2.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current Department of Justice Employees
Are you a current DOJ employee who has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service? AND
Have never held the grade level or had promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your service, appointment type, and tenure, and your DOJ organization. Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent or 2 - Conditional; AND
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service.

Please do not submit an award or pay adjustment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current Department Justice Employees
Are you a DOJ employee on a career- or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service?  AND
Do you currently hold, or have you ever held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position being advertised, in addition to having held the same or higher promotion potential as this position being advertised?  OR
Have you held a position at the full promotion potential of this position?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your DOJ organization. Your SF-50 must reflect:
Block 24 - Tenure:  1 - Permanent or 2 - Conditional;
Block 34 - Position Occupied:  1 - Competitive Service; AND
a remark documenting your promotion potential.
Please do not submit an award SF-50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


2.

I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 I DO NOT certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


3.
You may be required to complete a pre-employment security screening and background investigation, which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 I agree to a complete pre-employment security screening and background investigation, which includes a drug screening.
 I do not accept this condition.


4.
I have read the full vacancy announcement on USAJOBS and understand the requirements laid out under Required Documents section. I understand that failure to provide a required document may result in my application being rated ineligible, incomplete, or that I may be rated based on the information I do provide. I further understand that my resume must contain sufficient information about my work experience in order for me to receive credit.

Refer to the USAJOBS job opportunity announcement for the full list of required documents for each group of applicant.
See What Types of Documents Might I Have to Provide? (USAJOBS) for additional information about documentation.
See the Resume Writing Tutorial for more information about resume requirements.
 Yes
 No


5.

The duty location for this position is in Washington, DC. If you are outside the National Capital Region (NCR), (as defined by the Office of Personnel Management), are you willing to relocate?
 I am outside of the NCR and understand the position is in Washington, DC. and will relocate.
 I live within the NCR.
 I will not relocate.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Staff Assistant, GS-0301-9, position with the Department of Justice. Your response to this Assessment Questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, such as your resume, will be evaluated to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. 

Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses.  Your resume must clearly reflect examples of your selected responses.  If selected for an interview, you may be asked to give specific examples during your interview. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you from consideration for this position. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-9, Staff Assistant work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower-level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 federal grade level (1) Managing correspondence to include things such as handling of controlled, sensitive, and related correspondence; screening, logging, and responding to citizen correspondence; and preparing reports for Division leadership: AND (2) Handling personnel matters to include things such as managing the timely processing and organization of staff docket memoranda, docket reports and evaluations, and the preparation and timely execution of performance work plans in USAPerformance.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL. B or J.D.
 I have a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
If your response is "D", you must provide how many months of specialized experience and the number of semester hours you have completed to meet this requirement.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙