Position Title
Biological Science Technician (Temporary)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
AK-SITK-26-13050815-BST Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority
This position is being filled under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority. The ANILCA local hiring authority allows federal land management agencies to give selection preference to eligible local applicants for qualifying jobs. 

Do you meet the eligibility requirements for selection preference under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority? 


To be eligible, you must: 

Have lived or worked in or near Alaska Public Lands as outlined in the job announcement. 
Possess special natural or cultural resource knowledge of the area. 


Your application package or resume must clearly document how you meet these requirements. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


ANILCA Alaska Local Hire
1.

This position is being filled under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority. The ANILCA local hiring authority allows federal land management agencies like the National Park Service to give selection preference to eligible local applicants for qualifying jobs with the National Park Service.  

Do you meet the eligibility requirements for selection preference under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority? 

To be eligible, you must: 

Have lived or worked in or near the locality of the job posting (i.e. the specific location/s you selected) as outlined in the job announcement (see: Areas considered "near") long enough to have acquired local expertise. 
Possess special natural or cultural resource knowledge of the area. 

Your application package or resume must clearly document how you meet these requirements. 



 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the National Park Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are eligible for this position. Please Note: Applicants must provide sufficient information and detail to demonstrate they possess the special knowledge or expertise required under Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Failure to provide adequate information will result in a determination of ineligibility. This ANILCA vacancy announcement is to fill a Supply Technician, GS-2005-06 position in the excepted service under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) hiring authority, Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Eligibility for the position under this hiring authority is determined by your special knowledge of the natural and/or cultural resources of the park or preserve, by having lived and/or worked within areas considered near Sitka National Historical Park. Areas considered "near" Sitka National Historical Park are Baranof Island, which includes the community of Sitka, and the adjacent Admiralty Island including Angoon, the adjacent Chichagof Island including Hoonah, and the nearby City and Borough of Juneau.


1.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your ability to meet the special knowledge or expertise requirements for positions filled through this ANILCA vacancy announcement.

 I have special knowledge or expertise concerning the cultural and/or natural resources of the park or preserve.
 I do not have the special knowledge or expertise described above.


You must possess special knowledge or expertise of Sitka National Historical Parks natural and/or cultural resources and the management thereof. Your responses to the following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for positions filled through this ANILCA vacancy announcement. Please provide specific details when responding to the questions to include your special knowledge or expertise and the locations in which this knowledge or expertise was gained. Your special knowledge and expertise must have been gained within areas considered near Sitka National Historical Park. Areas considered "near" Sitka National Historical Park are Baranof Island, which includes the community of Sitka, and the adjacent Admiralty Island including Angoon, the adjacent Chichagof Island including Hoonah, and the nearby City and Borough of Juneau. Please Note: Applicants must provide sufficient information and detail to demonstrate they possess the special knowledge or expertise required under Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Failure to provide adequate information will result in a determination of ineligibility.


2.
Have you lived and/or worked within the area considered near Sitka National Historical Park, as outlined above?

 Yes, I have lived and/or worked within areas considered near Sitka National Historical Park.
 No, I have not lived and/or worked within areas considered near Sitka National Historical Park.


3.
If you answered yes to the question above, you must provide the name of the city/town/village along with the start and end dates of each period you lived or worked in that area. If you lived in multiple cities/towns/villages, list the start and end dates separately for each location. Example: Hoonah, AK, 05/2022 - 02/2024; Sitka, AK, 05/2024 - 01/2025.



4.
Tell us about your special knowledge or expertise of the natural and/or cultural resources of Sitka National Historical Park. Provide details of your knowledge or expertise, i.e. community history, geographic features, wildlife, safety precautions, weather conditions, etc. Please be specific in your response.



5.
Tell us how you obtained your special knowledge or expertise of the natural and/or cultural resources of Sitka National Historical Park. Please provide specific details, i.e. personal knowledge such as fishing, professional knowledge obtained through a position held, official training, etc.



6.
Your responses to this assessment, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skill, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙