Position Title
Administrative Support Assistant
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-EHT-FIRENC3-FS3129-567DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Huson, MT
 B. Missoula, MT
 C. Plains, MT
 D. Seeley Lake, MT
 E. Superior, MT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education needed to qualify for this position.


For the following questions, select the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application, as well as information provided by your references. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience for the Administrative Support Assistant position at the GS-05 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: Greeting visitors and responding to phone and written inquiries personally or referring to other staff as appropriate; and/or Maintaining written records and files in electronic and/or hardcopy filing systems; and/or Using word processing software and printing equipment to create, copy, edit, store, retrieve, and print standardized documents ensuring correct grammar, spelling, punctuation, and format.
 I have a bachelor's degree or 4 years of successfully completed education above high school. The education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college, or university.
 I have an appropriate combination of successfully completed post-high school education (in excess of the first 60 semester hours) and specialized experience.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


2.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience for the Administrative Support Assistant position at the GS-06 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as two or more of the following: Providing support and assistance processing a wide variety of requisitions; and/or Reconciling purchases and maintained files in accordance with Federal regulations and agency directives; and/or Processing incoming and outgoing mail; and/or Establishing and maintaining the unit’s files, accountable property inventories, records, etc. (hardcopy and/or electronic format); and/or Using automated software to produce reports, correspondence and other written documents in draft form.
 I have one full year (18 semester hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of the position. For example, Business Management, Accounting, Business Marketing, Public Administration, or another closely related field. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I have an appropriate combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


3.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience for the Administrative Support Assistant position at the GS-07 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as two or more of the following: Carrying out new systems or administrative processes to meet unit needs; and/or Receiving and reviewing all formal ingoing/outgoing correspondence for proper format, grammar, punctuation, etc.; and/or Using automated databases and software to produce reports and record information; and/or Establishing and maintaining manual and electronic records and filing systems; and/or Producing written documentation, reports, memos, etc., in final format.
 I have one full year (18 semester hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of the position. For example, Business Management, Accounting, Business Marketing, Public Administration, or another closely related field. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I have an appropriate combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


4.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, degree, and/or completion of trade or vocational school program.

 A. I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of high school or college.
 B. I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 C. I am (was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 D. I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g., M.A. or Ph.D.).
 E. I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 F. I have received a certificate or other indicator of successful completion of a trade or vocational school program that is directly related to the work of this position.
 G. None of the above.


For the following question, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your training and/or experience. Please select only one response for the question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. Your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit.


5.
Which option best describes the duties that are performed in the entry grade of this role?
 Performs a full range of standard and non-standard clerical and administrative assignments and resolves a variety of non-recurring problems; supports and assists with a full range of purchasing and procurement needs of the unit, reviews outgoing correspondence for grammatical accuracy and conformance.
 Provides advice on administrative issues.
 Receives data from multiple sources in multiple forms, reviews the data, and processes it to meet a variety of administrative needs.
 Greets visitors and answers the telephone.
 Operates fire suppression equipment and supply coordination for incidents.


6.
What knowledge categories are most important for this position?

 Knowledge of support functions to provide general information to employees, Knowledge of office automation systems to use several types of software, General knowledge and understanding of government purchasing, Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.
 Knowledge of spreadsheets and inventory requirements.
 Knowledge of Government travel regulations.
 Ability to communicate effectively.
 Information system model building.


7.
Which option best describes the duties that are performed in the intermediate grade of this role?

 Responsible for administrative support for the fire organization, property and procurement management, database management for both fire and fuels management, and budget services, provides a wide range of administrative support duties, tracks medical physicals, spirometer testing and medical requirements, assists with the issuance of burn permits, maintains records of burn and campfire permits, assists with fire education activities.
 Updates organizational charts, phone lists and emergency contact information, tracks and coordinates Incident Qualification and Certification System.
 Tracks medical physicals, spirometer testing and medical requirements.
 Provides budget assistance.
 Operates fire suppression engines and vehicles.


8.
What knowledge categories are most important for the intermediate grade of this position?

 Comprehensive knowledge of rules, regulations, and other guidelines relating to completing assignments in the program area, Knowledge of organizational structure and functions of the unit, skill in using computer applications and technology to produce correspondence, reports, and spreadsheets.
 Knowledge of spelling, grammar, and required formats to ensure accuracy and appropriateness, Knowledge of payroll regulations and policies/practices of the agency.
 Skill in communicating orally and in writing to coordinate requests, obtain information, and provide technical assistance.
 Ability to communicate effectively.
 Analytical science based model building.


9.
Which option best describes the duties that are performed in the advanced grade of this role?

 Responsible for administrative support for the fire organization, property and procurement management, database management for both fire and fuels management, and budget services, Serves as the administrative focal point for training, suppression, prevention, fuels, human resources coordination, budget assistance and general administrative support work.
 . Issues burn permits, maintain records of burn and campfire permits, and assist with fire education activities, handles prescribed burn documentation and collection, assists with various databases, contracts administration report, budget support, and assist with spot forecast inputs/outputs.
 Updates organizational charts, phone lists and emergency contact information, travel voucher input for temporary employees, and worker’s compensation coordination and tracking.
 Provides budget assistance.
 Creates information technology portals and support sites.


10.
What knowledge categories are most important for the advanced grade of this position?

 Applies problem solving skills along with an understanding of the issue, previous experiences, contacts and resources, and the knowledge of processes and procedures to resolve issue for the staff, recommending actions that are consistent with the objectives and requirements of the program, skill in oral and written communication.
 Knowledge of computer applications for typing correspondence, maintaining spreadsheets, communicating electronically, and setting up devices necessary to conduct electronic/virtual meetings.
 Knowledge of records establishment, maintenance, disposition, and archival procedures sufficient to maintain compliance with regulatory, policy, and departmental directives.
 Practical knowledge developed through increasingly difficult experiences dealing with problems of a variety of subject matter.
 Topographic and map based model building.


For each item below, use the text box to provide a description of a specific instance from your training and/or experience. In your response, please follow these important guidelines as you write your accomplishment:
Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved...
Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.
Provide the name and a telephone number, email address, or other method of contacting someone who can verify this information. Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating.


11.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in utilizing computer applications and technology to produce a wide variety of documents such as correspondence, reports, and spreadsheets. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).


12.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in maintaining various records such as permits, organizational charts, personnel training requirements, travel vouchers, etc. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).


13.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in providing administrative support for a specialized area or program that the assigned unit or staff supports. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).


Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take an opportunity to review your responses for their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
Have you read the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement and understand that failure to submit all required, legible documents prior to the closing date of the announcement may result in loss of consideration?

 Yes
 No


15.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙