Position Title
Data Scientist
Agency
Joint Activities
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-13036015-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This is a DoD Cyber Excepted Service (CES) personnel system position in the Excepted Service under 10 USC 1599f. Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a CES position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a three year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V3005, Cyber Excepted Service, Employment and Placement. While serving a probationary period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a three year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary Data Scientist, GG-1560-13 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Data Scientist at the GG-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have completed courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes directly applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience may have been acquired in any public or private sector job but will clearly demonstrate past experience in the application of the particular competencies or knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position. Such experience is typically in or directly related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by 1. Applying data science methodologies to analyze datasets, 2. Developing algorithms that identify patterns in datasets, and 3. Providing analytical data to support decision making.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙