Position Title
Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - MRI
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12933277-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - MRI - GS-0647-10 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Grandfathering Provision.
All persons employed in VHA as a DRT on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the DRT occupation. For employees who do not meet all of the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
DRTs that require a certification, may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
DRTs that require a certification only at higher grade levels must meet the certification requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels.
DRTs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
DRTs initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification that meet all of the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
Employees who are retained as a DRT under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a DRT.
NOTE: Each uncertified VHA DRT who was permanently employed on June 21, 1986, and whose competence in the safe administration of ionizing radiation was affirmed, in writing, by a VA licensed physician not later than January 1, 1987, is considered fully qualified. These employees may be promoted, changed to lower grade, or reassigned within the GS-0647 occupational series. Any employee initially retained in this manner who leaves this job series loses protected status and must meet the full requirements in effect at the time of reentry.


Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).
This specialty modality requires additional knowledge of superconducting magnets, the physics of superconducting magnets, and how they relate to the human anatomy in medical imaging. The technologist must be educated in the safety factors governing a magnetic environment that patients, visitors, and equipment enter. The practitioner must have specialized knowledge of cross sectional anatomy and how it relates to the soft tissues and vessels of the human body. The technologist must also have specialized knowledge in the radio-frequency surface coils required for each specific anatomical area to be imaged. This assignment may also perform basic magnetic resonance safety program duties. Technologists must be knowledgeable in contrast media, power injectors, and PACS. DRT assignments that include performance of independent duties in this subspecialty require advanced ARRT (MR) certification.


Basic Requirements


1.
English Language Proficiency:
Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
Certification-
All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.

NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCET minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.


Do you possess a ARRT (R) certification to include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as listed above? (Copy of valid ARRT and MRI certification is required at time application is submitted)
 Yes. (Copy of valid transcripts is required at time application is submitted)
 No.


3.
Education-
Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE). *(Copy of valid transcripts is required at time application is submitted)

NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCET minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.


Do you meet the education requirements as described above?
 Yes. (Copy of valid transcripts is required at time application is submitted)
 No.


Grade Requirements


Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist.
Employees are trained to work in one or more difficult and complex modalities performing procedures related to these modalities as well as performing general diagnostic procedures.
At this grade level, any assignment in a single modality must demonstrate significant complexity. Such assignments are unique, perhaps with expert specialization in complex areas of radiologic technology, Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) regulations, and intermediate QM type duties within the program.


4.
GS 10 Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - MRI (Above the Full Performance Level)

Experience.
At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?

 Yes.
 No.


5.
GS 10 Advanced Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - MRI Knowledge Skills and Abilities-In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, devices and techniques, including concepts of accumulated dosage, dose monitoring, and genetic changes.
Ability to utilize advanced imaging software that supports complex imaging programs and recognize changes in equipment and procedures that might result in increased exposures, and ability to recommend methods to prevent such exposures.
Knowledge of basic physics including concepts of energy, electric power, magnetic fields, and properties of x-ray, to understand the operation of the equipment.
Knowledge and skill in positioning of patients for a wide variety of highly complex imaging (CT, MRI, IR, ultrasound, mammography) studies.

Do you meet the KSA's as listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


SF-50 REMINDER - If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/ resignation SF-50. This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50. A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's. Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.


Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙