Position Title
Dietitian
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-13059688-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Dietitian position with Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education, experience and/or registration that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Dietitian at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's or graduate (or higher level) degree in the field of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or a related science. My curriculum was in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (formerly American Dietetic Association (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation. My educational program was accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have completed a coordinated undergraduate program, internship, or other clinical component approved by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (formerly American Dietetic Association (ADA)) for dietitians or nutritionists. (Note: You must attach proof of completion, to include AND/ADA verification).
 I possess professional registration as a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN). (Note: You must provide a copy of your registration.)
 I do not meet any of the basic requirements above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0630 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not possess the education, experience and/or registration described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Dietitian at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes providing medical nutrition therapy through nutrition assessment, diagnosis and intervention, and educating patients, staff or medical students on topics of nutrition.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙