Position Title
Government Information Specialist
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
STIMP-12915757-26-TL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-14 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Government Information Specialist position.


 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service where at least 75% of my duties include: processing FOIA/PA requests for access to records; conducting searches for records; determining whether records are responsive to the request; communicating with requesters, both orally and in writing; making determinations or recommendations regarding disclosure of material; researching and analyzing issues contained in responsive records and providing recommendations for action; and researching applicable points of law and summarizing substantive information from statutes, case law, etc
 I do not have the experience described above.


Merit Hiring - 4 Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.




1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-14 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Government Information Specialist position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service where at least 75% of my duties include: processing FOIA/PA requests for access to records; conducting searches for records; determining whether records are responsive to the request; communicating with requesters, both orally and in writing; making determinations or recommendations regarding disclosure of material; researching and analyzing issues contained in responsive records and providing recommendations for action; and researching applicable points of law and summarizing substantive information from statutes, case law, etc..
 I do not have the experience described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



1.
Select any and all privileges that commonly fall within Exemption 5 of the FOIA.
 A. Attorney-Client Privilege
 B. Doctor-Patient Privilege
 C. Attorney Work-Product Privilege
 D. Executive Privilege for National Security
 E. Deliberative Process Privilege


2.
Which one of these items was formally added to the law as part of the 2016 FOIA amendments:
 Foreseeable Harm Standard
 Personal Harm Standard
 Investigatory Harm Consideration
 Exemption Doctrine


3.
Select any and all items that would be relevant to the application of Exemption 6:
 A. Public Interest
 B. Balancing Test
 C. Classified Information
 D. Confidential Commercial Information
 E. Privacy Interest


4.
How many days does an agency have to respond to a FOIA request; a request for expedited treatment?
 21 Days; 14 Days for Expedition
 25 Days; 15 Days for Expedition
 20 Days; 10 Days for Expedition
 60 Days; 30 Days for Expedition


5.
Which two FOIA exemptions are the most similar to each other
 Exemptions 4 and 5
 Exemptions 1 and 8
 Exemptions 6 and 7(C)
 Exemptions 2 and 7(A)


6.
If a law enforcement investigation has closed, which of the following exemptions could still apply (assuming they applied before the investigation was closed)? Select all that could still apply.
 A. Exemption 6
 B. Exemption 1
 C. Exemption 7(C)
 D. Exemption 7(E)


7.
If a requester challenges both the adequacy of the search and the application of exemptions, which of the following BEST reflects the purpose of the administrative appeal process?
 To provide the requester an opportunity to refine arguments before pursuing litigation.
 To conduct a de novo review of the initial determination, including reassessing the adequacy of the search, application of exemptions, and any foreseeable harm.
 To confirm whether the agency followed proper procedures and timeliness in responding to the requester.
 To compile a complete administrative record to support the agency’s position in litigation


8.
If a requester files an appeal alleging the agency's explanations are insufficient and requesting a Vaugh index, must the agency provide one?
 Yes, the agency must provide a Vaughn index for each appeal.
 Yes, the agency must provide a Vaughn index when a requester alleges insufficient explanations on appeal.
 No, the agency does not need to provide a Vaughn index, as it is primarily a litigation tool.
 No, a Vaughn index is not used at any stage in the FOIA request or litigation process.


9.
In routine FOIA matters, when it comes to preliminary decision-making with regard to the application of FOIA exemptions, as well as the initiating and conducting of consultation with or referrals to other FOIA offices, do you possess a high level of independence without the need for supervisory review?
 My work is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures at every stage.
 Although my supervisor might do a final review before making a final determination, my work in routine and preliminary stages generally does not need to be reviewed by a supervisor.


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙