Position Title
Dental Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12869430-26-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 26, 2026 to Apr 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please select the appropriate response as it pertains to your qualifications for the following questions.
Grandfathering Provision. All Dental Assistants employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (04/19/2011) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
1. Dental Assistants grandfathered under this provision may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. Such employees must meet the certification requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels.
2. Dental Assistants who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
3. Dental Assistants initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
4. If a Dental Assistant who was retained under this provision leaves the occupation, they lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following.


1.
English Language Proficiency:  Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Experience and Education Requirement: To fulfill this requirement, you must meet one of the following:

Please select the most appropriate response below to indicate how you meet the experience and/or education requirement for the Dental Assistant occupation.
 I have six months of experience that demonstrates my ability to perform the work, or provides familiarity with the work. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 I have successfully completed a 1-year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA). I understand that I must submit transcripts to document and that failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating. (Unofficial transcripts are sufficient.)
 I have a combination of experience and education to qualify. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that I must submit transcripts. I understand that failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating. (Unofficial transcripts are sufficient.)
 I have a combination of experience and education to qualify. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume and that I must submit transcripts. I understand that failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating. (Unofficial transcripts are sufficient.)
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in answers A, B, C, or D above.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your one (1) year dental assistant program you successfully completed from which you meet the basic requirement above. If you did not attend a dental assistant program, please indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Major/Program title:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Basic Requirement - Provisions for Certification of Radiologic Competence: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. You must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in this regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as radiographers in their field. To fulfill this requirement, you must meet one of the following:  

Please select the most appropriate response below for Certification of Radiologic Competence. You must submit documentation in your application material to support your response. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.
 I successfully completed the Dental Radiation Health and Safety Examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board, Inc.
 I successfully completed the Principles and Practice of Dental Radiology and Radiographic Safety courses and examinations developed by the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Dentistry.
 I successfully completed a radiation health and safety program or examination approved by a state board of dentistry or the Department of Defense (DoD).
 I was a VHA dental assistant on the effective date of the qualification standard (4/19/2011) and have remained in that position to date to meet the grandfathering provision for qualifications.
 I am pending certification of radiologic competence. I understand that if selected I will be given a temporary appointment as a graduate dental assistant, not to exceed two years. Failure to obtain certification is justification for termination of the temporary appointment.
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in answers A, B, C, D or E above


3a.
Please provide the following certification information as it pertains to the provisions for certification of Radiologic Competence. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
Name on certificate:
I.D. Number:
Date certificate awarded:
Date of expiration:


4.
Basic Life Support Certification: Do you possess certification in basic life support methods? Note: This is not a requirement, but it is highly desirable for the position.
 Yes
 No


5.
Basic Certifications: Do you possess certification by the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB)?

Certification by The American Dental Association (ADA) recognizes the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB) as the national certification for Dental Assistants. DANB certification is not required, but highly desirable. Are you certified by DANB? If so, please submit a copy of current certification
 Yes, I possess this certification or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.

Grade Level Requirements. 

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

**At the GS-05 level include but are not limited to: responds to basic medical emergencies; measures and records vital signs; provides pre- and post- operative instructions; maintains a field of operation during dental procedures through the use of retraction, suction, irrigation, drying, placing and removing cotton rolls; using the concepts of four- handed dentistry, assists with basic restorative procedures; mixes basic dental materials; assists in preparation of laboratory prescription forms; applies pressure indicator paste to removable prostheses; exposes and processes basic dental radiographs; mounts and labels dental radiographs and/or saves digital imaging to electronic medical records; evaluates radiographs for diagnostic quality; maintains routine dental equipment per manufacturer and dental service standards. 
At the GS-5 level, employees demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
1. Knowledge of anatomy and ability to evaluate diagnostic quality.
2. Broad knowledge of common medical emergencies and vital signs measurement.
3. Basic knowledge of instruments, materials and standardized dental procedures.
4. Ability to learn and utilize software programs used within VHA.
5. Basic communication skills to provide patient instructions according to established protocol.

Do you meet this requirement?
Your resume must clearly demonstrate your experience.

 Yes
 No


7.
GS-06 Dental Assistant - Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
In addition to meeting the experience requirements at the GS-06 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Ability to identify normal oral anatomy.
Advanced knowledge of instruments, materials, and standardized dental procedures used in all phases of restorative, surgical, endodontic and periodontal care and procedures.
Ability to monitor and perform basic interpretation of vital signs.
Ability to independently provide procedure-specific patient education and appropriate referral of patient concerns to treating dentist.
Ability to capture standard and special dental images of good diagnostic quality in traditional or digital formats.
Ability to perform maintenance on dental equipment used for routine and specialty dentistry.
Ability to enter and retrieve data utilizing electronic dental records.
Ability to perform dental assistant-appropriate laboratory procedures.
Do you meet ALL of the requirements above? You must ensure this is fully detailed in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No



Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.


Certification Reminder:  Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙