Position Title
Child and Youth Program Operations Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13042500 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response which best describes your experience and/or qualifications.
 I have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education AND I have 2 or more years of administrative experience.
 I have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education AND I have less than 2 years of administrative experience.
 I have limited or no education or experience.


2.
How much experience do you have providing clerical support using computer software applications (e.g., word processing, spread sheets, shipping/receiving programs, etc.)?
 3 or more years.
 2 - 3 years.
 Less than 2 years.
 Limited or no experience.


3.
How much experience do you have with recordkeeping, including tracking data, completing registrations, maintaining paper and database files, and/or preparing reports?
 1 or more years handling child & youth-related records (e.g., childcare enrollments, Child & Youth Management System (CYMS) or similar database entries, etc.).
 1 or more years.
 Less than 1 year.
 Limited or no experience.


4.
How much experience do you have providing information, responding to questions, and referring inquiries for customers or patrons?
 3 or more years.
 2 - 3 years.
 Less than 2 years.
 Limited or no experience.


5.
How much experience do you have collecting and recording payments?
 2 or more years.
 1 - 2 years.
 Less than 1 year.
 Limited or no experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙