Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12849016 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to submit to a pre-employment physical exam prior to employment.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Do you have at least two years of experience that demonstrates knowledge in a combination of at least two of these categories: carpentry, plumbing, washer/dryer repair, HVAC, electrical or painting.
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the answer that best represents your experience with using skilled techniques to construct, install, repair or modify wood structures and wood working equipment to ensure finished product with precise fits, accurate dimensions and acceptable appearance.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with using skilled techniques to construct, install, repair or modify wood structures and wood working equipment to ensure finished product with precise fits, accurate dimensions and acceptable appearance.
 I have between 1-3 years of experience with using skilled techniques to construct, install, repair or modify wood structures and wood working equipment to ensure finished product with precise fits, accurate dimensions and acceptable appearance.
 I have 3+ years of experience with using skilled techniques to construct, install, repair or modify wood structures and wood working equipment to ensure finished product with precise fits, accurate dimensions and acceptable appearance.
 I do not have any carpentry experience.


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience with performing general painting task to include special coating methods such as marbling and graining using coating materials ensuring surfaces have a smooth-textured and decorative appearance and meet thickness and level requirements.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with performing general painting task to include special coating methods such as marbling and graining using coating materials ensuring surfaces have a smooth-textured and decorative appearance and meet thickness and level requirements
 I have between 1-3 years of experience with performing general painting task to include special coating methods such as marbling and graining using coating materials ensuring surfaces have a smooth-textured and decorative appearance and meet thickness and level requirements
 I have 3+ years of experience with performing general painting task to include special coating methods such as marbling and graining using coating materials ensuring surfaces have a smooth-textured and decorative appearance and meet thickness and level requirements
 I do not have any painting experience


4.
Select the answer that best represents your experience working with HVAC systems(to include maintenance, installations, and/or repairs)?
 I have less than 1 year of experience working with HVAC systems
 I have between 1-3 years of experience working with HVAC systems
 I have 3+ years of experience working with HVAC systems
 I do not have any experience working with HVAC systems


5.
Select the answer that best describes your experience with troubleshooting/performing repairs on electrical faults on components such as breakers, wiring, relays, switches and control boards.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with troubleshooting/performing repairs on electrical faults on components such as breakers, wiring, relays, switches and control boards
 I have between 1-3 years of experience with troubleshooting/performing repairs on electrical faults on components such as breakers, wiring, relays, switches and control boards
 I have 3+ years of experience with troubleshooting/performing repairs on electrical faults on components such as breakers, wiring, relays, switches and control boards
 I don't have any electrician experience.


6.
Select the answer that best represents your experience with water heater installation/troubleshooting, pipe-fitting techniques and diagnosing and repairing plumbing fixtures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with water heater installation/troubleshooting, pipe-fitting techniques and diagnosing and repairing plumbing fixtures.
 I have between 1-3 years of experience with water heater installation/troubleshooting, pipe-fitting techniques and diagnosing and repairing plumbing fixtures.
 I have 3+ years of experience with water heater installation/troubleshooting, pipe-fitting techniques and diagnosing and repairing plumbing fixtures.
 I do not have any plumbing experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙