Position Title
Local Hire (Emergency Management Specialist 2)
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-26-KRP-42397-LH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 USAJOBS
 FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 FEMA.gov Careers Website
 FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 College/University/Alumni Organization
 FEMA Employee Referral
 Other


3.
Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout (such as the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payments (VSIP)) from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)

Note: The Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) is not an annuity or a buyout.
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.


4.
Are you a current FEMA employee?
 I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 I'm not a current FEMA Employee


5.
Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


6.
Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)


7.
Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 No
 Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.


8.
Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 Yes
 No, but I have an exemption
 I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 Not Applicable


2.
All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 Yes
 No


3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙