Position Title
MWR Navy Race Marketing Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12780983 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 08, 2025 to Aug 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to accept a position requiring a financial disclosure statement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Navy Race Operations Marketing Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one-year specialized experience with commercial sponsorship and marketing techniques and strategies for event promotion?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience with commercial sponsorship program policies, procedures and techniques.
 My current position involves experience within the Department of Navy (DON) commercial sponsorship program policies, procedures and techniques.
 My current position involves experience within the Department of Defense (DOD) commercial sponsorship program policies, procedures and techniques.
 My current position involves experience with private sector sponsorship program policies, procedures and techniques.
 My current position does not involve experience with DON, DOD or private sector sponsorship program policies, procedures and techniques.


3.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience with advertising agreement writing, marketing techniques and/or strategies for event promotion.

 I have five (5) or more years of experience with advertising agreement writing, marketing techniques and/or strategies for event promotion.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with advertising agreement writing, marketing techniques and/or strategies for event promotion.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with advertising agreement writing, marketing techniques and/or strategies for event promotion.
 I have no experience with advertising agreement writing, marketing techniques and/or strategies for event promotion.


4.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with community relations and public affairs techniques that are specific to military protocols and procedures.
 I have five (5) or more years of experience with community relations and public affairs techniques that are specific to military protocols and procedures.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with community relations and public affairs techniques that are specific to military protocols and procedures.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with community relations and public affairs techniques that are specific to military protocols and procedures.
 I have no experience with community relations and public affairs techniques that are specific to military protocols and procedures.


5.
Select the response below that best describes your experience with conducting and analyzing marketing research, including surveys, demographics, needs assessments, focus groups and pricing reviews.
 I have five (5) or more years of experience with conducting and analyzing marketing research, including surveys, demographics, needs assessments, focus groups and pricing reviews.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with conducting and analyzing marketing research, including surveys, demographics, needs assessments, focus groups and pricing reviews.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with conducting and analyzing marketing research, including surveys, demographics, needs assessments, focus groups and pricing reviews.
 I have no experience with conducting and analyzing marketing research, including surveys, demographics, needs assessments, focus groups and pricing reviews.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙