Position Title
Coin Production Manager
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12968947-M Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in either public or private sectors that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience:

-Oversight of day-to-day production planning to ensure efficient operations; AND
- Using basic Lean principles (such as identifying waste or improving workflow steps) to help improve processes and use resources more efficiently; AND
-Coordinating production schedules to utilize the capability of the people and capacity to meet both production goals and delivery schedules.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one year of GS-13 level experience which has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
From the list below, please indicate all duties in which you have independently led personnel in a production or manufacturing work environment.
 A. Planning and adhering to established daily, weekly or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, priorities, methods and policies.
 B. Delegating responsibility and work with and through others.
 C. Establishing program objectives.
 D. Motivating subordinate supervisors to perform accurate and efficient supervision to employees on a team to produce a quality result.
 E. Instructing, guiding and reviewing the work of others.
 F. Leading a large-sized group of subordinate supervisors and employees.
 G. Leading a medium-sized team of subordinate supervisors and employees.
 H. Meeting daily goals and priorities (directing operations).
 I. Resolving informal grievances.
 J. Conducting safety meetings on a scheduled basis.
 K. Preparing formal performance appraisals/evaluating performance of subordinate supervisors.
 L. Recommending the selection of employees.
 M. Organizing and communicating changes in programs.
 N. Project and contract management.
 O. Administering progressive disciplinary actions to correct performance or behaviors as applicable
 P. None of the above.


3.
Please check each of the following Lean Manufacturing principles, concepts, and/or training for which you have had experience implementing.
 A. Quick Response Manufacturing (QRM)
 B. Six Sigma
 C. Total Productive Maintenance(TPM)
 D. Overall Equipment Effectiveness(OEE)
 E. Process Control Systems
 F. Enterprise Resource Planning(ERP)
 G. Kanban
 H. 6S
 I. Kaizen
 J. Lean Flow
 K. SMED
 L. Mistake Proofing
 M. Supermarket
 N. Third Party Logistics (3PL)
 O. Other lean manufacturing concepts
 P. None of the above


4.
Please choose the following areas you have experience serving as a technical consultant or authority to top management and division heads.
 A. Monitoring day-to-day operations and ensuring coordination of activities with other divisions within and organization.
 B. Addressing technical contract discrepancies regarding purchase requirements
 C. Participating in the development of overall plans for expansion of operations
 D. I have no experience in any of the above areas


5.
Select the response that best describes your experience in developing and executing a vision for an organization, issue, or initiative.
 I have identified opportunities for improvement and presented suggestions to my supervisor/manager for implementation. I have led the effort to prepare and implement a vision
 I have identified opportunities for improvement that involved gaining the support of others in my workgroup and managers in the organization.
 I have served in a key role for developing the strategic plan for my organization.
 I have led the implementation of a key organizational initiative that required collaborative development and communication of a shared vision.
 I have collaboratively developed and implemented a shared vision with multiple stakeholders that were directly adopted/sponsored by a Senior Executive of the agency.
 None of the above.


6.
As a supervisor it is very important to be able to communicate and develop subordinates through various coaching, grievance and complaint processes. Please select the areas that you have had direct experience with.
 A. Facilitating in face-to-face groups
 B. Conflict Management
 C. Managing within a Bargaining Unit environment
 D. Conduct and document formal appraisals and reviews
 E. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
 F. Interest based negotiating
 G. Communicating support of employee assistance policies to subordinates
 H. Mediation
 I. Corrective and Progressive discipline
 J. None of the above


7.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


8.
Have you had experience working with Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Programs and helping to ensure a harassment and discrimination free workplace?
 Yes
 No


9.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


10.
Please choose the areas in which you have experience or training.
 A. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Program
 B. Alternative Dispute Resolution Program
 C. Affirmative Employment Program for Minorities and Women
 D. Formal Complaint Process
 E. Informal Complaint Process
 F. None of the Above


11.
Please choose the duties with which you have experience or training:
 A. Developing and / or monitoring Preventative Maintenance schedules
 B. Team Building
 C. Creating and managing shift / scheduling rosters
 D. Determining work requirements and scheduling overtime to meet deadlines
 E. Establishing workload priorities based on project importance and manning availability
 F. Determine equipment and material requirements for installation, maintenance and repairs
 G. Relaying and explaining instructions to other employees
 H. Time Management
 I. Risk Management Analysis
 J. Implementing a Project Plan
 K. None of the above.


12.
Select the software applications you are proficient in (proficient means you understand and use a major part of the systems functionality/capabilities).
 A. Word processing software
 B. Data management/spreadsheet software
 C. Presentation software
 D. Electronic mail and messaging
 E. Internet search engines
 F. Other Application Systems (i.e. time and attendance, accounting, scientific, security, supply, etc.)
 G. Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Systems
 H. None of the above


13.
Select the responses that best describes your oral communication experience.
 A. I served as the program lead on job related issues
 B. I Initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization.
 C. I persuaded others to take a particular course of action.
 D. I persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints.
 E. I exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers.
 F. I participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 G. I made informal presentations to co-workers on management/supervisory issues
 H. I made formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides, graphics, flip charts, and/or overheads.
 I. I made formal presentations to management or management teams
 J. I design and deliver formal courses of training or instruction using a variety of electronic media.
 K. I protect and relay sensitive and/or controversial information to only appropriate parties
 L. None of the above


14.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


15.
Do you have experience working with and ensuring work is performed in compliance with all OSHA regulations?
 Yes
 No


16.
Do you have experience actively supporting a safety and health program applicable to the agency and with all rules, regulations and orders and other responsible authorities with respect to the Occupational Safety Program?
 Yes
 No


17.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


18.
Do you have experience working with and ensuring that all systems and work processes performed are covered by internal controls and are in compliance with relevant laws?
 Yes
 No


19.
Do you have experience working with and ensuring that all systems and work processes performed are covered by appropriate precautions to prevent fraud, waste, and misuse of resources?
 Yes
 No


20.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙