Position Title
Program Manager for Theater & Musical Theater Initiatives
Agency
National Endowment for the Arts
Announcement Number
IMP-12951196-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Select the appropriate eligibility item(s) based on the below recruitment considerations.

Merit Promotion: You will only receive consideration (if eligible) under competitive merit promotion procedures if you select any of the following eligibilities: CTAP, Current Agency Employee (Competitve) (Comp MP).

Non-Competitive: You will only receive consideration (if eligible) under non-competitive procedures if you select Current Agency Employee (Non-Competitve) (Non-Comp MP).


1.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

• this vacancy is in the same local commuting area as your current or last permanent position of record; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.


For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.


To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


 Yes
 No


2.
Do you meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility
 
Current agency employees in the Agency hiring for this position, with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service, and have never held the grade or full performance level of this position.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current agency employees with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Does your resume clearly demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience in the Federal service-or equivalent public or private sector experience-at a level comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-12 grade level performing all of the following duties? 
Reviewing theater and musical theater grant applications for eligibility, completeness, and budget accuracy, using published guidelines to support consistent recommendations.
Analyzing budgets and financial records to assess organizational stability, identify risks, and recommend reasonable budget changes.
Applying grant and cooperative agreement requirements to track deliverables, resolve issues, and document actions that protect program funds.
Advising applicants and partners on project planning and funding requirements, using knowledge of theater field activities and trends.
 Yes. My resume demonstrates at least one full year of specialized experience in the Federal service (or equivalent public or private sector experience) at a level comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-12 grade level, performing all of the required duties.
 No. I do not possess the required specialized experience and therefore am not eligible for consideration for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙