Position Title
SUPERVISORY SECURITY SPECIALIST (OPERATIONS) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12904299-AF-26-058 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level that demonstrates the ability to develop, implement, and manage law enforcement, physical security, installation security, and Anti-Terrorism and Force Protection (AT/FP) programs; provides protection against possible theft, unauthorized entry, espionage, sabotage, and subversion from both internal and external threats; performs analytical and evaluative duties related to the business of security; and investigates and analyzes a variety of security issues? The specialized experience must also demonstrate the ability to exercise supervisory personnel management responsibilities; plan, organize, and direct operational activities, ensuring security and law enforcement functions comply with legal/regulatory requirements and meet customer needs; establish, revise, or review policies, procedures, mission objectives, and organization design as necessary to eliminate work problems or barriers to mission accomplishment, promote team building, implement quality improvements, or respond to concerns with regulatory compliance and/or customer requirements; plan work for accomplishment by subordinate units, sets and adjusts short-term priorities, and prepares schedules based on consideration of difficulty of requirements and assignments?
 Yes
 No


2.
In detail, explain your experience planning, organizing, and directing operational activities, ensuring security and law enforcement functions comply with legal/regulatory requirements and meet customer needs.


3.
In detail, explain your experience balancing workload and providing overall direction and vision to subordinates on a wide range of crime protection, prevention, and administrative issues.


4.
In detail, explain your experience developing, modifying, and/or interpreting performance standards.



5.
In detail, explain your experience developing civilian recruiting strategy, and recruiting efforts.


6.
In detail, explain your experience evaluating and consolidating installation programming actions for incremental funding for manpower, civilian pay, and initial and replacement uniform and equipment costs.


7.
In detail, explain your experience pursuing and apprehending or directing apprehension of person(s) fleeing a crime scene or attempting to resist arrest.


8.
In detail, explain your experience Mirandizing suspects, preserves evidence, and testifies in court as it pertains to enforcing laws and regulations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙