Position Title
Biological Science Technician (Fish)
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
FWS-FF06-26-FS-002(FUL) Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.


1.
Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-05 grade level.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and each specialized experience requirement is clearly written in my resume.
 I have completed a four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with major study or at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics. At least 6 semester hours of courses must have been directly related to the position to be filled. You must provide transcripts to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I have an equivalent combination of undergraduate education and qualifying specialized experience at the GS-4 grade level or higher as described above. If education is used to meet the specialized experience requirement, 6 semester hours must be directly related to the occupation as described above. You must provide transcripts to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I have completed a 12-month clinical laboratory technician program in microbiology/biochemistry roles. You must provide transcripts to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


2.
Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-06 grade level.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and each specialized experience requirement is clearly written in my resume.
 I possess less than one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level as described in the vacancy announcement.
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


3.
Select the statement that most closely matches your qualifications as defined in the vacancy announcement for the GS-7 grade level.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level as described in the vacancy announcement, and each specialized experience requirement is clearly written in my resume.
 I possess one full year of graduate-level education.
 I possess a four-year degree demonstrating Superior Academic Achievement (defined as a GPA of 3.0/4.0 for all courses; or 3.5/4.0 for courses within the major field; or standing within the top third of a graduating class; or membership in a national scholastic honor society). Degree must be related to the nature of the position.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you understand that this position will require you to wear a department issued uniform while conducting your duties of the position?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess or are able to obtain a valid state driver's license?
 Yes, I possess a valid state driver's license.
 I do not possess a valid state driver's license, however, I am able to obtain one.
 I do not possess, nor I am able to obtain a valid state driver's license.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority (P.L. 6938 Section 127). This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified
individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit location you are applying to?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙