Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
WF26-12857016 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Condition of Employment
1.
Please select the response that best reflects your documented experience working with power tools.

* Resume needs to clearly demonstrate your experience*
 A. I do not possess experience working with power tools.
 B. I possess less than two (2) years of experience working with power tools.
 C. I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience working with power tools.
 D. I possess more than four (4) years of experience working with power toos.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
How many years of documented experience do you possess with the skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools?
 Two (2) or more years of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 One (1) to two (2) years of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 Six (6) months to one (1) year of documented skill in the use of a variety of basic hand/power tools and small construction tools.
 No documented skill in the use of hand-powered tools and small construction tools.


2.
How many years of documented general experience do you possess in one or more of the following trades:
PLUMBING, CARPENTRY, PAINTING, MINOR ELECTRICAL.
 Three (3) plus years documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 Two (2) to three (3) years documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 One (1) to two (2) years documented general experience in a trade listed above.
 Less than one (1) year or no documented general experience in a trade listed above.


3.
Do you possess the ability to work independently with little to no supervision?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙