Position Title
Biomedical Engineer-Technical Career Field/Trainee
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12899374-26-AXS Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Mather AFB, CA
 C. Palo Alto, CA
 D. Aurora, CO
 E. Bay Pines, FL
 F. West Palm Beach, FL
 G. Indianapolis, IN
 H. Lexington, KY
 I. Augusta, ME
 J. Boston, MA
 K. Leeds, MA
 L. Saint Louis, MO
 M. Las Vegas, NV
 N. Asheville, NC
 O. Providence, RI
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Richmond, VA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Qualifications: In accordance with the Qualification Standard for Biomedical Engineer, GS-0858, the following basic requirements that pertain to your citizenship, education, and licensure/registration must be met to be eligible for this position. Failure to meet any one of these basic requirements will result in non-consideration for this position.


1.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. I am proficient in both spoken and written English language.

 Yes
 No


2.
Select the option that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the minimum qualifications of this position.
 I possess, or will possess, a Bachelors degree or higher in Engineering with a confer date of September 6, 2026 or earlier. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time. Degree must be conferred prior to September 6, 2026. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I possess a Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a Bachelors degree not listed above. (CERTIFICATION & TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I am a current, permanent Biomedical Engineer, GS-0858 with the Department of Veterans Affairs and covered by the grandfathering provision.
 I do not have the experience and/or education described above.


3.
Select the option that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the qualifications of the GS-7.

 I fully meet the basic requirements as described in question 2, therefore; am eligible for the GS-7.
 I do not meet the basic requirements as described in question 2, therefore; do not meet the requirements for the GS-7.


4.
Select the option that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the qualifications of the GS-9.
 I possess one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower level (GS7) and which demonstrates the following required KSAs: 1) Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the biomedical engineering profession. 2) Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs; 3) Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system; 4) Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 I possess, or will possess, a Masters degree in Biomedical Engineering or a related field of study with a confer date of September 6, 2026 or earlier.
 I possess a Bachelors degree plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study. Additionally, my total background demonstrates the required KSAs: 1) Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the biomedical engineering profession. 2) Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs; 3) Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system; 4) Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.
 I do not have the experience and/or education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. I understand that the purpose of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Biomedical Engineer Technical Career Field (TCF) program is to develop qualified employees who possess the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to provide effective staff support to key health care management officials as well as lead the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) healthcare delivery system into the 21st century. Accordingly, I understand that I may be assigned to another VA facility after successful completion of the training which will be made in the Department's interest; and that, while my preferences will be considered when administratively feasible, I will be expected to accept assignment at any VA facility in the continental United States where my services are needed. I further understand that this training program is an integral part of a management development system designed to provide, through the progressive development of career employees, for the ongoing replenishment of qualified personnel in key administrative and management positions in the VHA. Accordingly, I understand that upon successful completion of training, I will be expected, with supervisory assistance, to plan and execute self-development activities progressively throughout my career. Should I select a position in a different commuting area, I understand that no guarantee will be made for payment of my relocation expenses.

 Yes
 No


6.
Please list the name of the school from which you graduated or will be graduating and the city and state where the school is located (e.g. Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana)



7.
Please use the calendar below to show the date that your degree was conferred or when it is anticipated to be conferred.



Transcript Reminder: Due to the positive education requirements for this series, transcripts (official or unofficial) must be submitted with your application materiel. If selected, a copy of the official transcript will be required. NOTE: Failure to submit your transcripts with your application material will result in the loss of further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙