Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13031334-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

INSTRUCTIONS: Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.   

  



1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


2.
Are you an E-3/A1C Not to Exceed E-5/SSgt? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the rank of A1C Not to Exceed SSgt. Civilians without prior service should respond "No".
 Yes, I am an E-3(A1C)
 Yes, I am an E-4(SrA).
 Yes, I am an E-5(SSgt).
 I do not possess one of the above listed ranks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? For Dual-Status Technician positions service affiliation under Title 32 USC 709 is required.  Military skill set is determined by AFSC/MOS requirements. Upon selection, individuals must be assigned to a compatible military AFSC/MOS per statutes and National Guard Bureau regulations and must obtain/maintain all requirements of the AFSC/MOS.  

AFSC:2A5X1
 Yes
 No


4.
Please type your current rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



5.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Specialized Experience Requirement for the Aircraft Mechanic, WG-8852-10 position.
 I have experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting, and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification. Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow. Must have the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Do you currently have a Secret Security clearance, or are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret Security clearance within the first year of employment?

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? If yes please upload a copy of your orders.
 Yes
 No


9.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙