Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADSN-27-13086042-DHA
Open Period
Oct 07, 2026 to Oct 18, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? -OR- Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? -OR- Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful. Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?* NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO .
 Yes
 No
3.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 LinkedIn
 Handshake
 Facebook
 Yello
 USAJOBS
 Virtual Career Event
 In-Person Career Event
 Veteran Employment Services
 State Labor Office
 Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 Other Social Media Site
 Other Recruitment Boards
 Other Federal Agency Referral
 Television/Radio Advertisement
Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Responses to the essay questions are optional. If you choose not to respond to the essay question or essay questions, please place "N/A" in the text box.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Min Quals, WG-4749-08, RZ
1.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position. YOU CAN ONLY SELECT ONE RESPONSE. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.
 I independently perform the more complex duties, such as performing preventive maintenance inspections and repairs on buildings, facilities, and equipment using trade skills in carpentry, plumbing, electrical, and painting; using shop mathematics to plan, layout, and measure material; operating heavy hand tools and power equipment (handsaws, trimmers, hatchets, shovels, etc.) to perform and complete tasks; manipulating hydraulic controls to raise and lower bed of the dump truck; making repairs/adjustments and testing electric power plants/substations and overhead/underground primary electrical distribution systems; preparing reports on inspections, corrected deficiencies, and repairs; diagnosing issues with air conditioning units and repairing/replacing duct work, soffits, and filters on HVAC systems; preparing surfaces for painting, such as sanding, wire brushing, stirs, rollers, etc.; using masonry techniques to repair ceilings, replace grid-work/tiles, patching dry wall, laying bricks/stones, etc.; interpreting and applying trade techniques using sketches, blueprints, technical manuals, diagrams, and manufacturer?s drawings; using carpentry skills to repair/replace hardware on doors, windows, closets, cabinets, etc.; operating motor vehicles (up to 26,000 pounds) to transport materials, equipment, and tools.
 I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, such as performing preventive maintenance inspections and repairs on buildings, facilities, and equipment utilizing trade skills in carpentry, plumbing, electrical, and painting; using blueprints, technical manuals, diagrams, and manufacturer?s drawings to complete work assignments; operating heavy hand tools and power equipment (handsaws, trimmers, hatchets, shovels, picks, etc.) to perform tasks; preparing reports on inspections, corrected deficiencies, and repairs; diagnosing issues with air conditioning units and repairing/replacing duct work, soffits, and filters on HVAC systems; preparing surfaces for painting, such as sanding, wire brushing, stirs, rollers, etc.; using masonry techniques to repair ceilings, replace grid-work/tiles, patching dry wall, laying bricks/stones, etc.; repairing/replacing plumbing joints, faucets, valves, discs, hangers, etc. as well as water heaters, dishwashers, and sinks/tubs; using carpentry methods to repair/replace hardware on doors, windows, closets, cabinets, etc.; overseeing loading/unloading operations.
 I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as performing routine preventive maintenance and repair on buildings, facilities, and equipment; using standard trade practices and guidance material to complete work assignments; preparing reports on inspections, deficiencies, and repairs; operating tools and power equipment to perform tasks, including mowing, trimming tree limbs, digging ditches/trenches, and grading and sloping; determining methods, techniques, devices, and materials needed to repair and/or replace interior/exterior structures, equipment, furnishings, fixtures, etc.; operating motor vehicles to pick up and deliver materials and equipment.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.
