Position Title
HR SPECIALIST (COMPENSATION/RECRUITMENT/PLACEMENT) TITLE 5 PERMANENT
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NH-12989366-AR-26-166 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


National Guard Requirements
Please choose the best options for ALL questions in this section. Read the question(s) carefully. Applicant is solely responsible for the accuracy of their answers. HR will not correct or modify your answers. If you have any questions or would like to verify only, we have successfully received your application, please feel free to contact us.


1.
Please read the responses carefully
 Area 4 - Are you a T5 National Guard Employees currently employed with the New Hampshire National Guard?
 Area 5 - Are you currently serving in the New Hampshire National Guard (NHNG) as a member in any status, or a former member of the NHNG with a characterization of service as Honorable Discharge or a General Discharge Under Honorable Conditions?
 None of the above


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the HR SPECIALIST (COMPENSATION/RECRUITMENT/PLACEMENT) , (GS-0201-11) position at our Agency.  We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  The experience stated in your resume must support your assessment responses. In describing your experience, please be clear and specific.  We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.   Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.  Applicants are solely responsible for the accuracy of their questionnaire answers.  HR will not change, add or modify any answers.  Human Resources WILL NOT divulge if you are qualified or not for the position.




Please explain your experiences with the above question. 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Must have at least one year specialized experiences at the GS-09 level or equivalent. Knowledge of  federal organizations and federal civilian programs. Experienced in advertising positions, processing assignments or reassignment actions. Competent in merit principles, personnel programs, and policies to guide or advise others on their implementation activities.  Skilled in applying Staffing program policies, directives, publications, and training manuals to everyday assignments. Experience with Staffing human resources programs related to federal civilian program. Must have experiences in executing Staffing programs in Human Resources Information Systems as applicable to the specific position and it's position description. Must have knowledge and understanding of the personnel and manpower core competencies. Must have experiences that includes guiding employees on human resources (civilian) program tasks.
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and knowledge of a wide range of HR concepts, laws and/or regulations sufficient to provide analytical and diagnostic advice to management and organizational leadership.
 


The following questions will be used to determine your level of knowledge, skill, and ability for this position.  The experience stated in your resume must support your assessment responses. In describing your experience, please be clear and specific.  We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.  



3.
Do you have the knowledge and ability to advise and support State managers, supervisors, and the Human Resources Officer on recruitment and placement matters for a variety of professional, administrative, technical, and clerical occupations.


3a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


4.
Do you have the ability to respond to complex inquiries involving the recruitment process such as vacancy announcements, status of employment applications, qualification requirements, and human resource programs.


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


5.
Do you have the knowledge and ability to educate commanders, managers, and supervisors on the various programs related to HR Staffing actions.


5a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


6.
Do you have the skill in troubleshooting and resolving the most difficult problems associated with providing comprehensive recruitment and placement advisory services.


6a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


7.
Do you have the ability to gather and analyze facts, draw conclusions from information, and communicate information clearly, orally and in writing.


7a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


8.
Do you have the experiences in executing Staffing programs in Human Resources Information Systems as applicable to the specific position and it's position description.


8a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


9.
Do you have the knowledge and understanding of the personnel and manpower core competencies.


9a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


10.
Do you have experience and knowledge of a wide range of HR concepts, laws and/or regulations sufficient to provide analytical and diagnostic advice to management and organizational leadership.


10a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


11.
Do you have the ability to use automated personnel data system to document, review, correct, amend, and/or approve personnel actions.


11a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.
 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙