Position Title
DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES SPECIALIST (T5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-12885008-AR-26-077 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to each of the following questions. For each question, choose the response that best represents your eligibility, employment and skills. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your uploaded resume, documents and information provided by your references.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position is open to current on board federal technician employed by the MN Army or Air National Guard. Are you a current on-board employee with the MN ARNG or ANG? An SF-50 MUST be provided with your application.

 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience or education as relevant to the position of Distribution Facilities and Storage Management, GS-2030-11. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by detailed work experience in your resume or application)?
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-09) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc) and is described in detail in my resume. I possess the following knowledge, skills or abilities: 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS09. Experience, education, or training determining the suitability and usefulness of storage facilities. Experience advising, resolving problems and planning for anticipated changes. Experience determining objectives and setting priorities. Experience preparing and installing simplified methods and new or revised procedures in a distribution or storage facility. Experience analyzing surveys and providing technical assistance in determining the use of storage areas and the allocation of storage space. OR a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I do not have the specialized experience described above.


3.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your general work experience as relevant to the position of Distribution Facilities and Storage Management, GS-2030-09. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed work experience in your resume or application)?
 I meet the general experience requirement which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-09) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc) and is described in detail in my resume. The general experience requirement experience is experience, education, or training which has provided the general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 I do not have the general experience described above.


INSTRUCTIONS: For each following question, please use the narrative text box to best describe your experience and/or training for that question.


4.
In detail, explain how your general experience meets the following: Experience, education, or training which has provided the applicant with a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field. Experience using computer and automation systems.


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


5.
In detail, explain your specialized experience or education within the Distribution Facilities and Storage Management field that is at least at the GS-2030-09 level or equivalent.


5a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


6.
In detail, explain your experience, education, or training determining the suitability and usefulness of storage facilities.


6a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


7.
In detail, explain your experience advising, resolving problems and planning for anticipated changes.


7a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


8.
In detail, explain your experience determining objectives and setting priorities.


8a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


9.
In detail, explain your experience preparing and installing simplified methods and new or revised procedures in a distribution or storage facility.


9a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


10.
In detail, explain your experience analyzing surveys and providing technical assistance in determining the use of storage areas and the allocation of storage space.


10a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙