Position Title
Program Specialist- Employee Experience Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12987233-26-MH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Instructions: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


All applicants must meet one of the following. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


INSTRUCTIONS: To qualify for the GS-09 , you must have a masters degree or one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level, or a combination of education and experience. Specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level must reflect progressively responsible analytical, administrative, clinical management, or supervisory experience in the health care field. This experience must equip the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.  The knowledge, skills and abilities of this position includes but is not limited to:
knowledge of basic principles and practices of program development,
project oversight,
budgetary monitoring, and data analysis sufficient to:
perform highly structured, entry-level work designed to develop broader and
more in-depth knowledge and skill to perform higher-level assignments;
communicate factual and procedural information related to employee experience topics clearly, orally and in writing;
gather and analyze basic facts related to employee experience and engagement
and draw conclusions.


1.
GS-9 Level: select the level of experience and/or education that best describes your qualifications for this position. This experience must clearly be documented in your resume and education must be supported with transcripts.
 I possess one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this position. Qualifying specialized experience includes: (1) Knowledge of basic principles and practices of program development, (2) Project oversight, (3) Budgetary monitoring, (4) and data analysis sufficient to: (a) perform highly structured, entry-level work designed to develop broader and more in-depth knowledge, and skill to perform higher-level assignments; (b) communicate factual and procedural information related to employee experience topics clearly, orally and in writing; (c) gather and analyze basic facts related to employee experience and engagement and draw conclusions.
 I have successfully completed a masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. of J.D., if related that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education in excess of the first year (18 semester hours) may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-09 level. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I do not possess any of the above stated required specialized experience or graduate level education.


INSTRUCTIONS: To qualify for the GS-11, you must have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, or a combination of education and experience. Specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level must reflect progressively responsible analytical, administrative, clinical management, experience. This experience must equip the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.  The knowledge, skills and abilities of this position includes but is not limited to:
Knowledge and understanding of mission, functions, resource requirements, program plans, and objectives to develop, review, analyze, adjust, and program requirements.
Analytical skills and abilities to identify problems and recommend solutions and evaluate the impact of program changes in accordance with established goals and objectives.
Knowledge, familiarity, and experience applying the six relational attributes which influence the Employee Experience: overall whole health & well-being, relationship to the organization, the technology that's used, the physical places where people work, who people engage with during work, and the work that they do. At any time, these attributes are at play and have an impact on the Employee Experience and make up a well-rounded approach to understanding and improving EX within the VA. LVAHCS recognizes that employees who positively experience their journey with the organization will be more engaged, committed, motivated, and inspired. In turn, this increased level of engagement ultimately translates into the delivery of an excellent customer experience to Veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors.
Skilled in oral and written communications to enable presentation of sensitive and sometimes controversial material and recommendations to higher authority and other government agencies.


2.
GS-11 grade level: select the level of experience and/or education that best describes your qualifications for this position. This experience must clearly be documented in your resume and education must be supported with transcripts.
 I possess one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Skills and abilities to identify problems and recommend solutions and evaluate the impact of program changes in accordance with established goals and objectives. Skilled in oral and written communications to enable presentation of sensitive and sometimes controversial material and recommendations to higher authority and other government agencies. Ability to take vague guidance and mold the information into a meaningful product, frequently having to brief results to management and higher-level officials. skill at interpreting various forms of information to others in order to ensure studies provide a usable product. Skill in preparing project papers and staff reports Skill in organizing and delivering briefings to managers to encourage understanding and acceptance of findings and recommendations. interpersonal skills in presenting recommendations and negotiating solutions to disputed recommendations.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. if related that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education in excess of a master's or equivalent graduate education may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-11 level. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙