Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12836187-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 17, 2025 to Friday, November 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Occupational Therapist position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


1.
English Language Proficiency. Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.


Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
Education
The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy
 OR
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field;
NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. 
OR
Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy

***Copy of transcripts is required to be uploaded at time application is submitted***

Foreign Graduates.
Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements of subparagraph [3b(2)] if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license referred to in subparagraph [3e] of this appendix.


Do you meet the required education requirement as listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


2a.
Please list the below information in regards to the above Education. Otherwise, indicate N/A 
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Accredited by ACOTE: 
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred/Expected Completion Date: 


Exceptions for the Graduate Occupational Therapist.
OT graduates from an approved occupational therapy program who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state licensure, may be appointed, pending certification and/or licensure, as a graduate OT  On a full-time temporary appointment not-to exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained.
For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, the OT must be certified and licensed.
A graduate OT may provide care only under the direct supervision of a licensed OT who meets all state regulatory requirements.
Temporary graduate OT appointments may not be extended beyond two years, or converted to a new temporary appointment.


Grandfathering Provision.
All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification/registration (that are part of the basic requirements of this occupation). 


Grade Determinations


3.
GS 9 Occupational Therapist (Entry Level).
None beyond the basic requirements


Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
GS 11 Occupational Therapist (Developmental level): In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates
Education or Experience,
Education:
Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled OR a Doctorate in occupational therapy.
OR
Experience:
Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field;


Choose from the list below the current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.
 I have a Doctorate in occupational therapy. (Copy of transcripts are required at time application is submitted)
 I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field.
 I do not meet any of the Education or Experience requirements as listed above.


5.
GS 11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's): In addition to meeting the experience for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.

Do you possess the above GS 11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's) as stated above?
 Yes.
 No.


6.
GS 11 & 12 Certification Requirement 
Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.


Do you meet the Certification requirement listed above for the GS 11 & GS 12? (Copy of certification is required to be uploaded at time application is submitted)
 Yes.
 I do not have the certification requirement and understand that if otherwise basic requirements are met Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level
 No.


6a.
Please provide your Certification information below:

Certification Number:
Original Issuance date:
Expiration date: 


7.
GS 11 & 12 Licensure Requirement 
Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.


Do you meet the Licensure requirement listed above for the GS 11 & GS 12? (Copy of License is required to be uploaded at time application is submitted)
 Yes.
 I do not have the licensure requirement and understand that if otherwise basic requirements are met Graduate OTs may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level.
 No.


7a.
Please provide your License information below:

License Number:
State License was issued:
Original Issuance date:
Expiration date: 


8.
GS 12 Occupational Therapist (Full performance level): In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.
 
Experience.
 Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.


Do you meet the requirements for the GS 12 grade level?

 Yes.
 No.


9.
GS 12 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice.
Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.

Do you possess the above GS 12 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's) as stated above?
 Yes.
 No.


Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙