Position Title
Secretary (OA)- Nursing
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12961909-26-MH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Secretary (OA) position located at the Lexington VA Health Care System. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
TYPING REQUIREMENT: Do you self-certify that you are proficient at 40 words per minute typing speed? (Words per minute are based on a 5 minute sample with three or fewer errors.

 Yes
 No


2.
GS-7 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Do you possess one (1) full year of specialized experience in the Federal service equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-6 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization?

Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-06) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization to be considered at the full-performance GS-7 level. Specialized experience is defined as:
Serving as initial point of contact for visitors and callers;
Carrying out and coordinating all clerical and daily administrative support activities of the office;
Collecting, compiling, and/or tracking of data; monitoring and replying to suspenses;
Composing, proofreading, and editing correspondence, memorandums, policies;
Answering staff questions and providing information necessary to complete work assignments;
Establishing, updating, and maintaining office files and records;
Assisting others with locating documents and references to ensure work assignments are completed and align with policy requirements; Independently determining priority of assignments and deadlines;
Making reservations for meeting room, notifying participants, and preparing for scheduled meetings and presenting material to be discussed; making travel arrangements; and interpreting rules, regulations and policies;

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06, as listed above. (Resume must reflect the specialized experience to be considered for this vacancy.)
 No, I do not have at least one year of specialized experience as listed above. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


3.
GS-8 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Do you possess one (1) full year of specialized experience in the Federal service equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-8 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization?

Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience. The Secretary (OA), GS-0318-8 position will perform work independently, with little supervision. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization to be considered at the full-performance GS-8 level.
Specialized experience is defined as:
Serving as initial point of contact for visitors and callers;
Carrying out and coordinating all clerical and daily administrative support activities of the office;
Collecting, compiling, and/or tracking of data; monitoring and replying to suspenses;
Composing, proofreading, and editing correspondence, memorandums, policies;
Answering staff questions and providing information necessary to complete work assignments; establishing, updating, and maintaining office files and records;
Assisting others with locating documents and references to ensure work assignments are completed and align with policy requirements;
Independently determining priority of assignments and deadlines;
Making reservations for meeting room, notifying participants, and preparing for scheduled meetings and presenting material to be discussed; making travel arrangements; and interpreting rules, regulations and policies;

 A. Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07, as listed above. (Resume must reflect the specialized experience to be considered for this vacancy.)
 No, I do not have at least one year of specialized experience as listed above. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙