Position Title
Industrial Hygienist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13013988-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Industrial Hygienist position with Department of the Army.
 
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
 



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Industrial Hygienist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s or graduate (or higher level) degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or a related science. My education was accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor’s degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. My education was accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For engineering degrees to be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a certification from the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH). (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 I do not possess the education and/or certification described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Industrial Hygienist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1.) coordinating surveys and investigations of worksites to evaluate and formulate controls for occupational health hazards; 2. ) developing controls and techniques to eliminate and reduce safety and environmental hazards in the workplace; 3.) briefing workforce personnel and managers regarding identified workplace hazards; 4.) preparing technical reports which identify health hazards and recommendations for their reduction and elimination; 5.) analyzing and evaluating new and existing jobs, processes, products, or other systems to determine the existence, severity, probability, and outcome of hazards; and/or 6.) inspecting or surveying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems for compliance with established safety and occupational health policies. standards and regulations.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙