Position Title
MWR Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12810006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 01, 2025 to Oct 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Fitness Manger) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one-year specialized experience managing the day-to-day operations of a fitness center?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a minimum of one year experience conduction graded exercise test on a stationary bike or treadmill with a heart monitor, performing body composition, flexibility and strength assessments and counseling individuals on their results to make fitness and lifestyle changes?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment.
 I have 5+ years of experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment.
 I have 3-5 years of experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment.
 I have 1-3 years of experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment.
 I have no experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment.


4.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience developing and customizing presentation to address groups and individuals.
 I have 5+ years of experience developing and customizing presentation to address groups and individuals.
 I have 3-5 years of experience developing and customizing presentation to address groups and individuals.
 I have 1-3 years of experience developing and customizing presentation to address groups and individuals.
 I have no experience developing and customizing presentation to address groups and individuals.


5.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience performing minor repairs and maintenance of exercise equipment.
 I have 5+ years of experience performing minor repairs and maintenance of exercise equipment.
 I have 3-5 years of experience performing minor repairs and maintenance of exercise equipment.
 I have 1-3 years of experience performing minor repairs and maintenance of exercise equipment.
 I have no experience performing minor repairs and maintenance of exercise equipment.


6.
Please choose the response below that best describes your supervisory experience.

 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 3-5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1-3 years of supervisory experience.
 I do not have any supervisory experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙