Position Title
Medical Records Technician (CDIS Inpatient/Outpatient)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12872673-26-KK Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 28, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Applicants must be a citizen of the United States by birth or naturalized.


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.


2.
Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


The following question pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required experience, education and/or an equivalent combination of experience and education (for entry level in which both education and experience are acceptable).


3.
You must meet at least one of the following criteria to qualify at this level:

Experience and/or Education
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient);
OR,
An associate's degree or higher and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records);
OR,
Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement;
OR,
Clinical experience, such as Registered Nurse (RN), Medical Doctor (M.D.), or Doctor of Osteopathy (DO), and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement.


NOTE: Transcripts are required if you are using education to qualify; and your resume must demonstrate any claimed experience.
Do you possess at least one of the requirements as noted above?

Please choose the answer below that best describes your qualifications.

***Certification. Employees at this level must have either a mastery level certification or a clinical documentation improvement certification.
 Yes, One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient).
 Yes, I possess An associate's degree or higher and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records).
 Yes, I possess a Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement.
 Yes, I possess Clinical experience, such as Registered Nurse (RN), Medical Doctor (M.D.), or Doctor of Osteopathy (DO), and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement.
 No, I do not possess the experience or education requirements as noted above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
You must also possess mastery level certifications to qualify at the GS-9 level of this position.  Do you possesses one of the following Certifications:
Employees at this level must have either a mastery level certification or a Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification.

Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications.
Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) 
Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P)
Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT)
 Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA)
Certified Professional Coder (CPC)
 Certified Outpatient Coder (COC)
 Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).
 Yes
 No


5.
For the GS-09, Do you have one year experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of a GS-08 with a Mastery level Certification?  Your resume must reflect that you possess the following knowledge, skills and abilities:
Knowledge of coding and documentation concepts, guidelines, and clinical 25 terminology.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology to interpret and analyze all information in a patient's health record, including laboratory and other test results to identify opportunities for more precise and/or complete documentation in the health record.
Ability to collect and analyze data and present results in various formats, which may include presenting reports to various organizational levels.
Ability to establish and maintain strong verbal and written communication with providers.
Knowledge of regulations that define healthcare documentation requirements, including The Joint Commission, CMS, and VA guidelines.
Extensive knowledge of coding rules and regulations, to include current clinical classification systems such as ICDCM and PCS, CPT, and HCPCS. They must also possess knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), MS-DRG structure, and POA indicators.
Knowledge of severity of illness, risk of mortality, complexity of care for inpatients, and CPT Evaluation and Management (E/M) criteria to ensure the correct selection of E/M codes that match patient type, setting of service, and level of E/M service provided for outpatients.
Knowledge of training methods and teaching skills sufficient to conduct continuing education for staff development. The training sessions may be technical in nature or may focus on teaching techniques for the improvement of clinical documentation issues
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER Your resume must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)


DOCUMENT REMINDER Application: VA Form 10-2850c (Application for Associated Health Occupations) is required for all applicants to be considered. SF-50: A SF-50 should be submitted if you are a current VA/Federal employee. This is can obtained by going into your eOPF. To get into your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) follow these instructions: ?Go to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/ ? If you don't know your username, click "Forgot Username" & answer the verification questions. Your username will be sent to your VA email (usually within a few minutes). ? If you don't know your password, click "Forgot Password" after you have obtained your username & answer the verification questions. You will be emailed a temporary password that must be changed when you log in for the first time. Be sure to remember this password for future log-ins. NOTE: You will need your username in order to obtain/rest your password; so you must get the username first. Transcripts: Provide a legible copy of your transcripts for any claimed education if you are using education as the basis to qualify for this position. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents. FAILURE TO SUBMIT THE APPROPRIATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS WILL CAUSE YOU TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR CONISDERATION OF THIS POSITION. You will not be able to submit documents after the closing date of this announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙