Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Laboratory Information Manager) - EDRP Approved
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13076765-26-JRH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Laboratory Information Manager). The grade in which a selection can be made is GS-12.

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:
Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Laboratory Information Manager)
 
Knowledge of concepts, principles, and methodology of clinical laboratory technology in relation to laboratory information systems
Knowledge of laboratory operations and their relationship to the organization.
Knowledge of laboratory computer systems sufficient to implement various laboratory associated packages and sustain operation of the laboratory system.
Knowledge of compliance and regulatory requirements for laboratory functions.
Ability to adapt, implement and integrate the use of software to specific laboratory applications and processes, including the use of office automation software.
Ability to independently plan, organize, set priorities, work as a team member, and effectively complete assign Knowledge of compliance and regulatory requirements for laboratory functions.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Education: Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes. (If your school was accredited by a body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the website https://ope.ed.gov/dapip/#/home, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.)
 I have completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials. The evaluation documentation must be submitted with your application and must show the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
 I have completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials. I am eligible to take the ASCP BOC or AMT certification examination. You must submit a copy of the letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating you are eligible.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 No, I do not meet either of these options.


2.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION:
Please provide a response that describes how you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please format your response to match the following template.

Part A: U.S. Education
Completed a bachelor from an accredited college or university in the U.S.? (Yes/No - If completed outside the U.S. please skip to part B)
College or University:
Degree (Ex. Bachelor of science):
Date graduated:

Part B: Foreign Education
Completed education outside the U.S. that has been deemed equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign education credentials? (Yes/No)
If yes - You must submit evaluation documentation. Documentation must show the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program.
Eligible to take ASCP BOC or AMT certification examination (Yes/No)
If yes - you must submit a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating you are eligible to take the certification exam.
NOTE: Possession of one of the following certifications automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification (related to this position) by ASCP or AMT.


3.
CERTIFICATION: Please select the option below that best describes how you meet the certification requirements for this position.
 I have a Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT
 I have a Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT
 I have a Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT related to the lab section for this position.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 I do not meet the certification requirements.


4.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Please provide a response that describes how you meet the certification requirements for this position. Please format your response to match the following template.

Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT? (Yes/No):
Issuing Body (ASCP BOC/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Date of most recent renewal:
Expiration Date:

Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT? (Yes/No):
Issuing Body (ASCP BOR/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Date of most recent renewal:
Expiration Date:

Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT related to the lab section for this position? (Yes/No):
Issuing Body (ASCP/AMT):
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Date of most recent renewal:
Expiration Date:


5.
GS-12 GRADE DETERMINATION:  CLINICAL LABORATORY SCIENTIST (LABORATORY INFORMATION MANAGER)

Do you have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-11?

Note: To be equivalent to the GS-11 level, experience also had to be also be gained while having an active:
- Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT (or)
- Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT (or)
- Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT related to the lab section for this position

Please ensure you have provided details of the Certification you have, issuing body, initial month/year of issuance, and date of expiration in the previous Certification Narrative, as this information, in conjunction with your resume, will be used to determine whether you meet the grade requirements for this position.

Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current CLS practices. The experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment as a CLS in the health care field. Research laboratory experience does not fulfill this requirement.

Quality of Experience. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to CLS experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled. For all assignments above the full performance level (FPL), the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity, and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.

Reference - GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Specialist Experience is the following: . A CLS at the full-performance level level independently carries out the day-to-day operations in the laboratory. The CLS develops, performs, evaluates, interprets, correlates, and validates the accuracy of laboratory procedures and results in line with current laboratory regulatory requirements. The work performed may be in a variety of laboratory specialties such as chemistry, microbiology, immunology, hematology, and immunohematology. Testing procedures are performed on a variety of biological specimens and/or environmental samples using manual or automated methods. In addition to routine testing, the CLS conducts quality control and routine maintenance of instrumentation and troubleshooting. The CLS correlates abnormal lab data with pathological states, determines the validity of test results, and the need for additional tests. Specific targeted laboratory responsibilities or projects may include laboratory safety officer, analyzer specialist, primary operator on new test systems, quality control specialist, supply control, and/or coordinator for the laboratory competency assessment or proficiency/survey program. This assignment may include limited duties in areas such as lab information management and ancillary testing. These tasks require a broad exercise of independent judgment and responsibility, including organizing and setting priorities with minimal technical supervision. The CLS assesses a situation, considers the options, and formulates an appropriate course of action. This assignment includes monitoring quality control systems and measures, collaborating in the diagnosis and treatment of patients, and providing education for laboratory health care professionals and the public in a professional, courteous, and effective manner.
 Yes
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


6.
Please identify which position(s) on your resume provided the one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 level.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙