Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
25-DO-12769014 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2025 to Aug 04, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Brookhaven, NY
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Memphis, TN
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Ogden, UT
 H. Parkersburg, WV


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service that is directly related to the position and has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position.
Specialized experience for this position is defined as:

- Administering a full range of Federal benefits programs (e.g., Federal retirement systems, Thrift Savings Program (TSP), insurance programs, leave programs, and workers' compensation program); and
- Analyzing problems and issues related to benefits programs and designing or leading projects or studies to develop sound recommendations for solutions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent in administering a full range of Federal benefits programs (e.g., Federal retirement systems, TSP, insurance programs, leave programs, and workers' compensation program)?
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least one year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent in analyzing problems and issues related to benefits programs, and designing or leading projects or studies to develop sound recommendations for solutions?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please list the job title and dates of employment listed in your resume where this experience can be found.


3.
Please select the answer(s) that best describes your expertise in Title 5 areas other than in benefits. Select only those areas in which applying Title 5 HR rules and regulations are a part of your daily responsibilities. (Select all that apply)
 A. Staffing
 B. Pay
 C. Performance Management
 D. Leave
 E. Classification and Position Management
 F. Labor and/or employee relations
 G. Employee Development
 H. Executive resources
 I. Workforce Planning
 J. None of the above


4.
Which of the following agency headquarters-level roles have you already successfully performed? (Select all that apply)
 A. Train agency components on new benefits programs and changes in law, regulation, or policy, related to existing benefits programs
 B. Lead agency efforts to reduce errors in agency retirement packages sent to OPM (Office of Personnel Management)
 C. Provide formal guidance to agency components
 D. Advise top agency officials on emerging benefits issues
 E. None of the above


5.
I have performed the following employee benefits functions successfully and routinely as part of my job: (Select all that apply)
 A. Determining the amount of retirement contributions, refunds of contributions, payment, and repayments needed for service credit and whether the requirements for payments of a survivor annuity or lump sum are satisfied
 B. Gathering information and explaining technical data on various routine employee benefits functions, such as health benefits open season, life insurance, FSA, leave, etc.
 C. Explaining options to employees regarding military benefits and prior Government service
 D. Explaining to employees the process and employee options when submitting either a FERS or CSRS retirement application
 E. Researching, interpreting, and applying basic laws, regulations, and policies on the Thrift Savings Plan programs
 F. Explaining to employees and beneficiaries retirement laws, regulations, and processes including such things as voluntary retirement, survivor benefits, deposits and redeposit
 G. Preparing initial retirement annuity estimates
 H. Explaining to employees the relationships of the Federal retirement program to other retirement programs, e.g. social security, military provisions, etc.
 I. Explaining to employees and beneficiaries life and health insurance laws, regulations, and processes including conditions to be met for reinstatement of insurance, conversions of life insurance, five-year rule, etc.
 J. Gathering and explaining benefits eligibility to employees transferring to International Organizations
 K. Routinely using the National Finance Center (NFC) system to pull benefits data to resolve issues and prepare agency reports
 L. Reviewing reports and monitoring agency progress on Workers Compensation initiatives
 M. None of the above


6.
Please select the answer(s) that best describe your experience in managing work-life programs. (Select all that apply)
 A. Child care
 B. Elder care
 C. Health and Wellness
 D. Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
 E. Telework
 F. Financial Literacy
 G. Workplace Flexibilities
 H. Domestic Violence, Sexual Assault, and Stalking
 I. None of the above


7.
Which one of the following responses best describes your highest level of experience related to managing an agency telework program?

 Serving as a Telework Coordinator at an Agency headquarters, providing guidance and advisory services to component Telework Coordinators.
 Serving as a Telework Coordinator at an agency component level, providing guidance and advisory services to managers, supervisors, and employees.
 Providing guidance and advisory services to managers, supervisors and employees on the telework program in a role other than an officially designated Telework Coordinator.
 I have not managed an agency telework program.


8.
Please select the answer(s) that best describes your expertise in Title 5 benefits. Select only those areas in which you have substantial experience in applying Title 5 HR rules and regulations. Substantial experience is defined as serving as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) to provide authoritative guidance and advice to resolve complex and unique situations, maximize workplace flexibilities to support mission achievement, and lead comprehensive HR projects to address long-standing or controversial issues. (Select all that apply)
 A. Health Benefits
 B. Leave Programs
 C. Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS)
 D. Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) Retirement
 E. FERS Revised Annuity Employees (RAE)
 F. Military Employees Benefits
 G. Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) Coverage Determination and LEO Benefits
 H. Thrift Savings Plan
 I. Workers' Compensation
 J. Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA) and Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)
 K. Life Insurance
 L. None of the above


9.
Please select the answer(s) that indicate your experience in determining an employee's eligibility for benefits for the following types of appointments: (Select all that apply)
 A. Permanent
 B. Term
 C. Temporary
 D. Senior Executive Service (SES)
 E. Schedule C
 F. Political Appointees (PA) and Political appointees requiring Senate confirmation (PAS)
 G. Consultants
 H. Experts
 I. None of the above


10.
Please select the answer(s) that best describe your experience identifying and analyzing HR benefits problems; making logical decisions; and providing solutions. (Select all that apply)
 A. Identifying and analyzing HR benefits problems; distinguishing between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions and developed creative solutions
 B. Using qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving
 C. Developing HR policies, regulations, procedures, and plans for meeting the organization's goals and objectives concerning employee benefits
 D. Independently interpreting and applying statutes and regulations to resolve HR benefits problems and issues. I am the senior person in the office who is sought out for interpreting laws and regulations
 E. Preparing and presenting analytical information to senior management officials within the organization, to explain or justify decision, conclusions, findings and recommendations regarding employee benefits
 F. Developing comprehensive material for reports, briefings or meetings of senior management officials on HR benefits issues
 G. None of the above


11.
Do you have demonstrated experience in evaluating the content of new legislation to determine the impact on agency programs and developing recommendations for program revisions based upon that analysis?

 Yes
 No


12.
Please indicate which of the following written products you have produced as a regular part of your job in a human resources environment. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have written issue papers or position papers, including analyses and recommendations, on significant and complex benefits-related HR issues.
 B. I have written policy guidance on HR issues.
 C. I have written the agency's responses or requests to OPM (Office of Personnel Management), or other third-parties (for example, testimony or responses to litigation), on complex benefits-related or other HR topics.
 D. I have written presentation or briefing materials, including "talking points" for senior officials, on complex HR topics.
 E. I have written HR policies and agency-wide guidelines on benefits issues, and/or drafted proposed legislation on benefits issues.
 F. I have reviewed written material, and suggested improvements for technical accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 G. None of the above


13.
This position requires aiding a variety of people with new or difficult concepts and technical issues. Please choose the statement(s) that describe services you have provided on a regular basis.
 A. Facilitating communications and activities between organizational entities
 B. Negotiating policy changes
 C. Mediating or facilitating problem resolution
 D. Briefing senior management on complex HR topics
 E. Independently planning, hosting, and conducting meetings
 F. Being regularly consulted by others on technical and programmatic issues
 G. Serving as an active participant on committees or task forces on technical and programmatic issues
 H. Serving as authoritative spokesperson for the organization on complex or controversial issues, e.g., in meetings with top agency officials or Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
 I. None of the above


14.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience in responding to legislative or regulatory changes affecting HR benefits programs. (Select one)

 I have analyzed legislative, regulatory or other proposals affecting HR benefits programs and drafted policy responses on behalf of my organization. I performed this task independently and normally without review by a supervisor.
 I have developed implementation action plans in response to new legislation or regulation regarding HR benefits programs.
 I have analyzed legislative, regulatory or other proposals affecting HR benefits programs and drafted documents regarding program changes, explaining the effect of these changes to internal and external stakeholders.
 I have analyzed legislative, regulatory or other proposals affecting HR benefits programs and provided recommendations for policy or program revisions.
 None of the above.


15.
Please select the types of documents that you have written as the sole author or as a major contributor: (Select all that apply)
 A. Discontinued service retirement letters
 B. VERA and/or VSIP request packages to OPM (Office of Personnel Management)
 C. General correspondence
 D. Analysis of LEO coverage requests
 E. Guidance to agency components on technical HR issues
 F. Comments and suggested wording on proposed issuances
 G. Policy Documents
 H. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙