Position Title
Social Worker (Program Coordinator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12943049-26-DMD Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements and the grade requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a Supervisory Social Worker within the VHA are prescribed by the Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 - September 10, 2019. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, license/certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license/certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a Social Worker on the effective date (09/10/2019) of the Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education (i.e., degree and internship requirements) and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Education - Do you possess a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)?

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred.

NOTE: Graduates of schools of social work that are in candidacy status do not meet this requirement until the School of Social Work is fully accredited. A doctoral degree in social work may NOT be substituted for the master's degree in social work.

We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Masters in Social Work:
Name of Institution
City and State
Major/Specialty/Program Focus
Month and Year conferred/graduated


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Licensure - Are you licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your Social Work licensure.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Issue date
Expiration date


GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


3.
GS-13 Social Worker (Program Coordinator) Experience:

Do you possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level?

Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to: Oversees the daily operation of the assigned program, develop policies and procedures for program operation, and prepare reports and statistics for facility, VISN, and national use. They may be responsible for the program's budget, developing and monitoring staff compliance with practice, standards and guidelines on documentation, workload, data entry, ethical practice and service delivery. The program coordinator provides analysis and evaluation of clinical program data and computerized programs to identify system-wide trends and needs to enhance the quality of service. They may be responsible for, or contribute to, the program's resource and fiscal management, monitoring control points developing the annual budget, operating within that budget, and accounting for appropriated funds. The program coordinator is administratively responsible for the clinical programming and prepares reports and statistics for facility, VISN, and national use. They provide leadership, direction, orientation, coaching, in-service training, staff development, and continuing education programs for assigned staff. They initiate and conduct a variety of program or service audits and complete designated clinical practice audits and reports, including productivity assessments. They oversee program operations and evaluations, identifying areas for improvement, gathering relevant data, assessing the data, developing and implementing ideas for improvement and evaluating efficacy of improvement efforts.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


4.
GS-13 Association of Social Work Boards (ASWB) Examination: 

Did you complete and pass the ASWB advanced generalist or clinical examination?

Candidates may have certification or other post-master's degree training from a nationally recognized professional organization or university that includes a defined curriculum/course of study and internship, or equivalent supervised professional experience.

A social worker with advanced practice skills and personal qualifications that meet the standard for the GS-12 grade level and above will have passed an advanced generalist or clinical ASWB examination
 Yes, I completed and passed the ASWB advanced generalist or clinical examination.
 No, my advanced practice license was grandfathered by the state in which I am licensed to practice at the advanced practice level (i.e., granted prior to the state administering the ASWB).
 I took the state of California (CA) exam and have a CA advanced practice license.
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No, A thru D do not apply to my advanced practice license.


5.
GS-13 Social Worker (Program Coordinator) Licensure:

Are you licensed or certified at the advanced practice level, -AND- able to provide supervision for licensure?
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


6.
GS-13 Social Worker (Program Coordinator) Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):

In addition to meeting the licensure and experience for the GS-13 level, do you possess the following KSAs?
Skill in coordinating and implementing one or more specialty program(s), across the facility.
Skill in local policy and practice development, procedures, and/or practice guidelines for the program as prescribed by the program handbook or national directive.
Skill in organizing work, setting priorities, meeting multiple deadlines, and evaluating assigned program area(s).
Ability to collaborate with internal and external partners to further program goals and enhance patient centered care.
Ability to provide the full range of supervisory duties including assignment of work to be performed; performance evaluations; and selection of staff, training, and recommendation of awards, advancements, and when appropriate, disciplinary action.
Ability to oversee the fiscal matters of the functions supervised (including fund controls, contracts, and equipment expenditures), forecast resource and equipment needs, and administer the allocated budget.
Knowledge of organizational structure and impact on program operations.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees and Health Professional Trainees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙