Position Title
Internal Revenue Agent (Employee Plans Agent)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13020857A-TEN-0512-5T9 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AZ7887) 7350 W Cam San Xavier, Glendale, AZ
 AB. (AZ6886) 1818 E Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ
 AI. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AJ. (CA7023) 9350 Flair Dr, El Monte, CA
 AK. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AL. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AM. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AN. (CA7395) 801 Civic Center Dr, Santa Ana, CA
 AO. (CA7816) 21040 Califa St, Woodland Hills, CA
 AP. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 AQ. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 AR. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 AS. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 AT. (FL3132) 201 S Orange Ave, Orlando, FL
 AU. (FL2437) 1248 N University Dr, Plantation, FL
 AV. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 AW. (GA2004) 2888 Woodcock Blvd, Atlanta, GA
 AX. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 AY. (IL2337) 2001 Butterfield Rd, Downers Grove, IL
 AZ. (IL2558) 5100 River Rd, Schiller Park, IL
 BA. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BB. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 BC. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 BD. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 BE. (MA0131) 15 New Sudbury St, Boston, MA
 BF. (MA6049) 103 Commercial St, Brockton, MA
 B. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 C. (MI2181) 1270 Pontiac Rd, Pontiac, MI
 D. (MN1675) 1550 American Blvd E, Bloomington, MN
 E. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 F. (MO1833) 1122 Town and Country, Chesterfield, MO
 G. (MO2008) 2850 NE Independence, Lees Summit, MO
 H. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 I. (NJ4721) 955 S Springfield Ave, Springfield, NJ
 J. (NY7501) 999 Stewart Ave, Bethpage, NY
 K. (NY7288) 2 Metrotech Center, Brooklyn, NY
 L. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 M. (NY0282) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY
 N. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 O. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 P. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 Q. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 R. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 S. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 T. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 U. (TX2835) 12309 N Mopac Expwy, Austin, TX
 V. (TX0284) 1100 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 W. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 X. (TX3077) 5555 N Beach St, Fort Worth, TX
 Y. (TX0298) 1919 Smith, Houston, TX
 Z. (TX2298) 12941 I-45 N, Houston, TX
 AA. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AC. (UT1434) 105 23rd St, Ogden, UT
 AD. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AE. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AF. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AG. (WA8075) 1301 A St, Tacoma, WA
 AH. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


3.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the [USER enter (BOD) names that are included in limitation] business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


4.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


5.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


6.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


7.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


8.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


9.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


10.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


11.
What is your current position title?


12.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


13.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


14.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


Throughout the online application process, you will be asked a series of questions that will be used to determine your eligibility, qualifications, and rating and ranking for this position.  Your responses to these questions will be further verified against the information provided in your resume, transcripts, and/or any other documents provided. The level and quality of your knowledge, skills, and abilities will be evaluated throughout the hiring process.



1.
Please confirm that you understand your responses will be verified against the information provided in your resume, transcripts, and/or other documents provided during the application process?
 Yes
 No


You must submit a copy of all of your college transcripts by 11:59 p.m. ET on the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement. Failure to submit all the transcripts, clearly showing the accounting courses required, by the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement may result in a determination of "Not Qualified."  These copies do not have to be official/certified copies at this point, though official/certified copies will be necessary if selected.



2.
Do you understand that you must submit all college transcripts by the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement, and that failure to provide all the transcripts may result in a "Not Qualified" determination?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


3.
GS-07
In addition to the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of Specialized Experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Qualifying experience in accounting, auditing, tax, financial, legal, or other fields to sufficiently demonstrate knowledge of and skill in applying the principles, concepts and methodology of professional accounting and related fields.
Following written instructions, for example, standard operating procedures or manuals, to perform the duties of a job.
Using word processing and spreadsheet software to prepare written reports and to analyze data.
Communication skills and experience developing and maintaining a positive and professional working relationship and rapport with internal and external stakeholders
Organizing and scheduling work independently to efficiently perform the duties of a position.

OR EDUCATION: Candidates must complete one (1) full year of graduate level education in a field of study such as accounting, business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.

OR Superior Academic Achievement may be met by having a Bachelor's degree, with one of the following: A GPA of 2.95 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study, or a GPA of 3.45 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. In order to be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled.

OR An equivalent amount of combined education and experience as described in paragraphs above

Which of the following responses best describes your education related to this position?
 I have one full year of graduate level education in a field of study such as accounting, business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
 I have a bachelor’s degree and have a GPA of 2.95 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study.
 I have bachelor’s degree and have a GPA of 3.45 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in my major field of study or those courses in my major completed in the last 2 years of study.
 I have a bachelor’s degree and ranked in the upper third of my class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or have a membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I am currently attending a college or university and am on target to successfully complete a bachelor’s degree by the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement, in any field of study, and will be graduating with honors (GPA of a 2.95 or higher, 3.45 or higher in the last 2 years, ranked in the upper third of my class, or have membership in a national honor society).
 I do not meet any of the options outlined above but do have at least one year of work experience in an accounting, auditing, tax, financial or legal environment. You will be given the opportunity to identify your experience in The question that follows this one.
 My education or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.

GS-07
Applicants who selected responses A, B, C, D or E in the question above must select response A or B to the following question. All other applicants please select one of the following responses that best describes your experience.

Which of the following responses best describes your experience related to this position?
I have education related to this position as indicated in my response (A, B, C, D or E) to the previous question.
I have education related to this position as indicated in my response (A, B, C, D or E) to the previous question and have experience in an accounting or auditing environment.
I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved working in an accounting, auditing, or legal environment where I advised others on tax liability, conducted an analysis of their financial condition and related operations, provided tax law or accounting assistance, or made determinations on liability for Federal taxes.
I have at least one year of experience advising clients on financial plans, tax and investment strategies, securities, insurance, pension plans, and real estate, which included assessing assets, liabilities, cash flow, insurance coverage, tax status, and financial objectives.
I have at least one year of experience in commercial or investment banking conducting evaluating and analyzing complex financial statements, cash flows, revenue streams, revenue projections, inventory analysis, accounts receivable aging and analysis, assets, debt coverage ratios, industry peer ratios, corporate structure and ownership, tax to financial statement reconciliations, financial transactions (customer and account activity) including Wire Transactions, Credit Card Transactions/Payments, Checks, Cash, Non-cash Monetary Instruments, Remote Deposit Capture, and Trade Based Money Laundering, and preparing written reports of questionable activity.
I have at least one year of experience in an accounting environment that involved importing and reviewing payroll, running reports, conducting reconciliations, making adjustments and reclassifications, preparing accounting reports for annual audits, and preparing quarterly tax filings.
I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved researching records, investigative techniques, bookkeeping and/or staff accounting. (e.g., Tax Examiner, Contact Representative, Accounting Technician)
I have at least one year of experience as a small business owner that included establishing budgets, managing financial assets, using automated accounting or manual bookkeeping systems, filing necessary employment and/or tax forms, and reconciling financial transactions or accounts associated with the business.
I have at least one year of budgeting or financial management experience that required formulating, managing, and executing budgets, analyzing financial reports, disbursing funds, and reconciling accounts in or on behalf of a business.
I have at least one year of experience processing and handling financial transactions analyzing credit data and financial statements on individuals, or in collecting information necessary to complete a financial application for loan processing, insurance claims, credit application, or other process requiring an individual’s financials.
I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved working in an administrative, technical, para-professional, or supervisory position. This may have included administrative responsibilities (e.g., processing records or reports, working in a technology environment, or other field NOT specific to investigations, accounting, or auditing).
I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved working as an inventory clerk, cashier, collection specialist/representative, loan officer or leasing agent.
None of the responses above accurately describe my education or experience.


5.


Specialized Experience GS-09:
In addition to the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of Specialized Experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Qualifying experience in accounting, auditing, tax, financial, legal, or other fields to sufficiently demonstrate knowledge of and skill in applying the principles, concepts and methodology of professional accounting and related fields.
Examples of qualifying experience may include (but list is not all inclusive): Professional accounting work that includes the design, development, operation, or inspection of financial/accounting systems; examination, analysis and interpretation of accounting data, records, or reports; provides accounting or financial management advice and assistance to management; auditing various types of tax returns to determine federal tax liability of individual taxpayers, businesses, or corporations; Interpreting and applying the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations and procedures; Making determination and redetermination, or audit, on liability for Federal taxes.
Testing, tying and reconciling information across various data sources to ensure accuracy, consistency and completeness.
Documenting actions taken in a written narrative that is clear, concise, accurate and complete.
Drafting, consolidating, and reviewing financial statements.
Make recommendations to internal and external stakeholders to improve processes
Interacting with clients or customers by asking precise questions, documenting answers thoroughly, explaining complex issues and managing difficult conversations professionally.
OR EDUCATION: A course of study that includes two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, leading to a master's degree, in accounting or related field of business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.

OR A Master's Degree in accounting or related field of business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.

OR An equivalent amount of combined education and experience as described in paragraphs above.


Which of the following responses best describes your education related to this position?
 I have successfully completed two full years of graduate level education in accounting or related field of business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
 I have successfully completed a master’s degree in accounting or related field of business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
 I have some graduate level education that included accounting and business courses, as well as work experience which specifically included performing accounting or auditing work in a business setting. You will be given the opportunity to identify your experience in the question that follows this one.
 I do not have any of the options outlined in the responses above but have at least one-year of work experience which specifically included performing accounting or auditing work in a business setting. You will be given the opportunity to identify your experience in the question that follows this one
 None of the above.


6.

GS-09
Applicants who selected responses A, B or C in the question above must select response A or B to the following question. All other applicants please select the response that best describes your accounting and business knowledge gained through experience.

Which of the following responses best describes your experience related to this position?
 I have education related to this position as indicated in my response (A, B or C) to the previous question.
 I have education related to this position as indicated in my response (A, B or C) to the previous question, and also have on-the-job experience working in an accounting or auditing environment.
 I have at least one year of experience in a Federal, State, or Local government working in a position that involved auditing various types of tax returns to determine liability of individual taxpayers and/or businesses. This included interpreting and applying pertinent parts of the Internal Revenue Code or State tax laws, related regulations, and procedures to determine compliance and accuracy of tax returns or tax filings.
 I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved working in an accounting, auditing, or legal environment where you have advised others on a full range of complex tax liability issues, conducted an analysis of their financial condition and related operations, provided tax law or accounting assistance and/or utilized investigative/examination techniques.
 I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved auditing files for fiscal accountability and accuracy, implementing general accounting practices for private or corporate clients, completing personal and corporate tax returns for diverse client base, and reviewing and processing loan or financial applications.
 I have at least one year of experience in an accounting environment that involved importing and reviewing payroll, running reports, conducting reconciliations, making adjustments and reclassifications, preparing accounting reports for annual audits, and preparing quarterly tax filings.
 I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved working as an inventory clerk, cashier, collection specialist/representative, loan officer or leasing agent.
 I have at least one year of experience in a position that involved investigating alleged criminal violations, federal tax statutes, and making recommendations for criminal prosecution and assertion of civil penalties.
 None of the responses above accurately describe my education or experience.


7.
Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience working in a professional tax, accounting or auditing environment.
 A. Certified Public Accountant (CPA)
 B. Accountant
 C. Auditor
 D. Tax Preparer
 E. Bookkeeper
 F. Adjunct Professor
 G. Retirement Plan Administrator
 H. Actuary
 I. Enrolled Agent
 J. Small Business Owner/Entrepreneur
 K. Teaching Assistant
 L. Intern /Volunteer
 M. None of the above


8.
Select all of the following which relate to your experience(s) working in a professional tax environment.
 A. Make tax law presentations to a work group within my organization (Federal, State or Corporate).
 B. Participate in the development of technical job aids and/or training desk guides on tax law for use by others.
 C. Held tactful and compelling discussions with stakeholders, to explain complex interpretation of tax laws, regulations and effectively resolve issues.
 D. Serve as a classroom instructor, within a university or organizational setting, on tax law, accounting or auditing.
 E. Worked extensively and interact effectively with a broad range of individuals in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions on the interpretation of tax issues and the impact on their business.
 F. Prepared, reviewed and analyzed separate, combined, and consolidated tax returns, tax provisions, estimated tax payments, cash tax forecasts, and extensions.
 G. None of the above


9.
Which or the following best describes your experience working in a professional accounting/auditing environment?
 Provided direction and assistance to team members while completing multiple assignments with competing deadlines.
 Provided assistance to team members while completing multiple assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completed multiple assignments with competing deadlines.
 None of the above


10.
Which of the following have you successfully performed in a professional business environment?
 A. Prepared month and/or year end statement income statements balance sheets and cash flow.
 B. Completed journal entries and account reconciliation
 C. Prepared employment or individual tax returns
 D. Monitored and/or managed spending and budgets for business
 E. Audited financial performance for business
 F. Conducted financial forecasting and risk analysis
 G. Advised clients on how to reduce costs and increase profits
 H. Compiled and presented financial and budget reports.
 I. None of the above.


11.
Which of the following best describes your accounting knowledge and/or auditing capabilities?
 Examined documents, records, accounting reports, and processes to ensure compliance with accounting and auditing principles, laws and regulations.
 Provided guidance on laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or customers related to tax law and/or accounting.
 Provided technical briefing to leadership on matters involving statutory provisions or regulatory requirements related to tax law and/or accounting.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following actions have you taken in conducting an audit, working a case, or preparing a tax return?
 A. Conduct interviews with the appropriate party to develop the facts.
 B. Request assistance from technical advisor or Lead on audit techniques or specific accounting or tax issues.
 C. Overcome issues when dealing with uncooperative/confrontational taxpayer, their representatives, or clients.
 D. Research court cases to substantiate the government, business, or clients’ position and present tax law findings.
 E. Write a Fraud Referral or Criminal Referral
 F. Issue a summons or third-party contact when necessary
 G. Coordinate auditing or case actions with other departments, business operating divisions, and/or government agencies.
 H. None of the above


13.
Which of the following research tools have you used to resolve tax issues?
 A. Internal Revenue Code (IRC)/Treasury Regulations
 B. Internal Guidelines/Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
 C. Lexis, Westlaw, Bloomberg, Accurint, CCH, and/or other similar tools
 D. Knowledge Management Portal/SharePoint (i.e., Headquarters and/or local sites)
 E. Audit Technique Guide
 F. Subject Matter Experts/Leads
 G. Financial Crime Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 H. YK1 Link Analysis or Interactive visualization tool/software for analysis of complex business structures and relationships.
 K. None of the above
 I. ERISA Outline Book (Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 - ERISA)
 J. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS)


14.
Which of the following tax-related experience(s) do you have?
 A. Administered retirement plans
 B. Serve as an Internal Revenue Agent (IRA)
 C. Serve as a Tax Compliance Officer
 D. Assist Local Counsel (i.e., Counsel and/or Appeals) with a case
 E. Identify foreign source bank transactions/activities
 F. Analyze tax return and identify abusive transactions
 G. Represent business clients in a formal audit, appeal, or tax court
 H. Represent federal or state government in conducting a formal audit of a business or corporation
 I. Prepare (e.g., consolidated, related, subsidiary) individual and/or business returns.
 J. None of the above


15.
Which of the following courses have you successfully completed? These may have been completed in an educational or professional work environment.
 A. International Tax
 B. Excise Tax
 C. Estate & Gift Tax
 D. Individual Income Tax
 E. Passthrough Entity Income Tax
 F. Corporate Income Tax
 G. Employment Tax
 H. IRS Basic A Retirement Plan training
 I. IRS Basic B Retirement Plan training
 J. None of the above.


16.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


17.
Which of the following actions have you taken in conducting an audit, working a case, or preparing a tax return?

 A. Conducted interviews with the appropriate party to develop the facts.
 B. Requested assistance from technical advisor or Lead on audit techniques or specific accounting or tax issues.
 C. Dealt with uncooperative/confrontational taxpayers, their representatives, or clients.
 D. Researched court cases to substantiate the government, business, or client’s position and presented tax law findings.
 E. Wrote a Fraud Referral or Criminal Referral.
 F. Issued a summons or third-party contact when necessary.
 G. Coordinated audits or case actions with other departments, business operating divisions, and/or government agencies.
 H. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙