Position Title
Assistant Director, Finance Group
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-ADM-KB-012 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Applicants must be current DOJ employees with competitive status. You have status if you are a current or former career or career conditional employee in the competitive service.

Do you meet the conditions above?
 Yes, I meet the conditions above.
 No, I do not meet the conditions above.


2.
To qualify at the GS-14 Federal grade level, applicants must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-13 federal grade level. This experience must include duties such as: overseeing, leading, or managing financial or budget operations; overseeing the management of financial system; participating in the establishment, revision, or implementation of financial management policies and/or internal controls; interacting with upper management to promote and ensure effective financial leadership; and supporting internal or external financial audits.

Do you possess the specialized experience described above?
 Yes, I possess the specialized experience above.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience above.


3.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify or inflate your responses may be grounds for not referring you. Please take this opportunity to review your rating to ensure the accuracy of your answers and that they are supported by your resume. Failure to agree to this statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙