Position Title
Management & Program Analyst
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-26-028-SP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?

 Yes
 No


2.
Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on performance of one or more of the competencies described for this position? Due weight of this recognition will be given in the evaluation process. You may submit documentation of this recognition.

 Yes
 No


3.
To qualify at the GS-14 level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 obtained in the federal or private sector in the following: planning, conducting, and presenting the findings of analytical studies; performing project management and/or leading teams; writing business communications including plans, studies, memoranda, and or organization-wide notices; research and data-gathering; and drafting and proposing revisions to policy, procedure, or process documents. Do you possess the specialized experience requirements as described?
 Yes, I have the required specialized experience as described above.
 No, I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙