Position Title
Health System Specialist (GHATP Trainee)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12949396-26-CD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Central, AL
 C. Tuscaloosa, AL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Augusta, GA
 F. Dublin, GA
 G. Charleston, SC
 H. Columbia, SC


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GRADUATE HEALTHCARE ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINING PROGRAM (GHATP) STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING: I understand the purpose of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Graduate Healthcare Administrative Training Program (GHATP) is to develop qualified employees who possess the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to provide effective staff support to key health care management officials as well as lead the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) healthcare delivery system into the 21st century.

Accordingly, I understand I may be assigned to another VA facility after successful completion of the training period which will be made in the Department's interest; and that, while my preferences will be considered when administratively feasible, I will be expected to accept assignment at any VA facility in the continental United States where my services are needed.

I further understand that this training program is an integral part of a management development system designed to provide, through the progressive development of career employees, for the ongoing replenishment of qualified personnel in key administrative and management positions in the VHA.

Accordingly, I understand that upon successful completion of training, I will be expected, with supervisory assistance, to plan and execute self-development activities progressively throughout my career. Should the supervisor/mentor of my training determine at any time that I am failing to meet the objectives of the program, I will be advised in writing of the specific deficiencies in my performance, and given a 60 calendar day improvement period. During this 60-day period, my mentor will meet periodically to evaluate my performance. If upon completion of the 60-day improvement period I remain deficient in meeting program objectives as determined by my supervisor, I agree to be reassigned to other positions for which I qualify at my current grade level. Should I select a position in a different commuting area, I understand that no guarantee will be made for payment of my relocation expenses.

If I enter the program through voluntary change to lower grade, I understand that re-promotion to my former grade is neither guaranteed nor implied. Furthermore, I understand that my agreeing to a voluntary reduction in grade constitutes a waiver of my right to appeal my grade reduction to the Merit Systems Protection Board, in accordance with Title 5 Code of Federal Regulations, paragraph 432.102 (b) (11).

 I have read and accept all the terms in the Statement of Understanding above.
 I have read but do not accept the terms in the Statement of Understanding above. I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to meet the Basic Education Requirement for the Recent Graduate Program. (Transcript(s) must be submitted).
 I am a recent graduate who obtained a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational, technical degree or a certificate from a qualifying educational institution or completed a qualifying career or technical education program within the previous 2 years.
 I am a Veteran (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108) who, due to military service obligation, were precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period described above have a full 2-year period of eligibility upon their release or discharge from active duty; however, this eligibility period cannot extend beyond 6 years from the date of completion of the requirements of an academic course of study.
 None of the above


3.
Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR): An IOR is a basic requirement that must be met in order to qualify for this occupational series. Education must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. All applicants must meet one of the following for this position. (Transcript(s) must be submitted if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education)
 I possess undergraduate or graduate education with a major study in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration.
 I possess progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following: Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems; Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and- Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.
 I completed an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program that was conducted in an operating health care system that included Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements; Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program.
 I do not meet any of the above.


4.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-09: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Health System Specialist work at the GS-07 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service. (Transcript(s) must be submitted if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education)
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7) in Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as experience that has provided you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of a GS-0671-09 Health System Specialist Qualifying specialized experience is defined as Demonstrating progressively responsible analytical, administrative, and clinical management experience within healthcare settings; collaborating with facility managers to analyze and coordinate operational and service activities; Applying investigative techniques to assess efficiency and effectiveness of administrative functions, prepare and coordinate budgets, staffing, and project documentation; and develop actionable recommendations to improve planning and management in alignment with healthcare system requirements and organizational missions.
 I have successfully completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have an combination of specialized experience and graduate level education beyond 18 semester hours.
 I do not have the experience or education as described in any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙