Position Title
TRAINING TECHNICIAN (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12854760-AR-25-284 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 23, 2025 to Jan 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (J3 - Joint Operations Center) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (J3 - Joint Operations Center) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E6 - E7)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-1702-09 Training Technician.
 I HAVE 1) the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade, and 2) experience, education, or training that demonstrates my ability to follow directions, read, understand, and retain instructions, regulations, and procedures that otherwise demonstrates my ability to perform or learn to perform the duties of the position.
 I DO NOT HAVE education, training or experience listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-1702-09 Training Technician.
 I HAVE at least 12 months experience equivalent to the GS-07 1) that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, 2) in conducting and developing education and training programs, 3) in conducting, supervising, or developing education or training programs, 4) in managing programs to include developmental education, voluntary education, advanced academic education, promotion testing, and libraries, 5) in performing interviews and counseling techniques, 6) in training techniques and instruction methods, 7) in task analysis procedures, learning processes, curriculum development, training evaluations, and education and training systems and products, 8) in training program management, 9) in scheduling training events and facilities, 10) in conducting assistance visits and training meetings, and 11) in preparing assignments, laboratory exercises, demonstrations, training aids, and references and related material required to parallel and supplement course outline.
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙