Position Title
TRAINING TECHNICIAN
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-13060121-AR-26-237 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Army Aviation Support Facility 1
 AOC 2: NG Employees in the State Army Aviation Office (This includes AASF 1, AASF 2, and EAATS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


2.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


3.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


4.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


5.
Are you an Officer in the grade of O1-O3, a Warrant Officer in the grade of WO1 to CW5, or an Enlisted member in the grade of E1 to E9 in any branch of military service and are you willing to become a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
All series personnel must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level and must have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level. Must have the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade. Experiences, education, or training that demonstrated the ability to follow directions, read, understand, and retain instructions, regulations, and procedures that otherwise demonstrates the ability to perform or learn to perform the duties of the position. Do you have these experiences?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 24 months experience that demonstrated the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (Competencies/KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position? Knowledge of Army or Air Force vision, values, organization, policy, and mission is mandatory. Do you possess knowledge in training centers, training programs, schools, and units for these systems? Do you have experiences in conducting and developing education and training programs? Are you experienced in conducting, supervising, or developing education or training programs? Do you have knowledge in the Army or Air Force education and training policy requirements?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙