Position Title
Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12830751-26-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Wednesday, September 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements for the position of GS-0640, Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language: Health Technician (HIS) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement:
Experience and Education: Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) must possess one of the following:
Experience: Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists; OR
Education: Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas.
Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.
Please select the following answer that best describes your Experience and Education.
NOTE: There is no combination of education and experience which can be substituted for the basic requirements.

 I have competed the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists. Please provide a copy of certificate/transcripts.
 I have successfully completed two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas. (Transcripts Required).
 I have foreign education that meets the basic requirements. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not have the experience and/or education required


3.
Licensure or Registration. Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia. (Proof of Licensure is required at time of application).

Please select the following answer that best describes your Licensure or Registration.

 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist).
 I do not possess a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist).


4.
Board Certification: Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS) (Please upload a copy with your application).

Do you possess this board certification?

 Yes, I hold an active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS). (Proof of certification required)
 No, I do not have the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS) and request to be considered under the exception for a temporary appointment at entry level and understand that I may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.
 I do not possess a board certification from the NBC-HIS.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-05 Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements. Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
(b) Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
(c) Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
(d) Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
(e) Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
(f) Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.

Do you possess the Knowledge, Skills and abilities above?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-06 Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist), applicants must have at least 1 year of experience at the next lower grade level.
In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs:
1. Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
2. Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
3. Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
4. Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene(cleaning and disinfection).
5. Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
6. Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
7. Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
8. Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Do you have experience listed and all KSA's reflected above?
 Yes
 No


May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙