Position Title
Attorney Advisor (Project Finance Attorney)
Agency
Export-Import Bank of the United States
Announcement Number
DH26-AR-12882354-OGC Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 09, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen:  Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current or Former Political Appointees:  The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?

-OR-

Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your resume and supporting documents must support the responses you select (Failure to provide a response below may result in further lack of consideration for this announcement).


1.
Select the option that best describes your education.
 I have successfully completed a J.D. or LL.B. degree
 I have successfully completed a LL.M. and either a J.D. or LL.B. degree
 I have successfully completed a S.J.D. and either a J.D. or LL.B. degree
 None of the above.


2.
Are you a current member of the Bar with a valid license to practice law in a state or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-15: Do you have at least five years of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal Service or other equivalent pay system that has equipped you to perform the major duties of this position? This specialized experience includes:
Origination Experience - At least 5 years of experience in origination stage drafting and negotiating (or supervising the drafting and negotiating with active involvement) of core finance and security documents (including, without limit, credit agreements, common terms agreements, intercreditor agreements and liens, pledges and other security arrangements such as common security agreements) in connection with international limited recourse project finance and other forms of highly structured and complex international finance matters ("International Structured Finance Matters") involving representation of either a project sponsor or a group of senior lenders preferably including one or more multilateral lending agencies, export credit agencies and/or bilateral agencies or other United States federal government agencies), both within the U.S. and internationally, as well as other forms of highly structured domestic and cross-border finance with at least 4 years of such experience being in a capacity as lead in drafting and negotiation of such types of documents;
Portfolio Management Experience - At least 4 years of experience relating to the routine portfolio management of operating credits for International Structured Finance Matters, including experience with respect to waivers and amendments, and familiarity with the issues that arise in restructuring of credits, enforcement of rights and/or arbitration or other dispute resolution;
Communication - Experience in effective oral and written communication in applying legal reasoning to engage and collaborate with high level officials in both the public and private sectors in the United States and internationally;
Capital Markets - Experience working with capital markets and a broad range of financial instruments, including foreign exchange guarantees, interest and currency swaps, and debt swaps. Applying concepts in mixed credit structures, private market solutions for political and commercial risk insurance, domestic secured lending practices, and international trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and documentary collections;
Multilateral and International Finance Expertise - Experience working with international financial institutions and frameworks, such as multilateral development banks, the OECD, the Berne Union, and the Paris Club's multilateral debt rescheduling procedures; AND
Leadership and Mentorship in Structured Finance - Experience serving as a resource and mentor to junior attorneys by addressing questions and issues related to International Structured Finance Matters, supporting their growth and enhancing team expertise.
 Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-15 grade level)
 My experience is not reflected in the description above.


4.
NARRATIVE: Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports your response to the specialized experience (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.


5.
From the following list, select all from the Telecommunications & Technology sectors in which you have direct experience with: (Experience in two or more sectors is required.)
 A. Non-satellite telecommunications
 B. Satellite communications – GEO satellites
 C. Satellite communications – LEO satellites
 D. Satellite constellations
 E. Launch services
 F. Other space-sector services
 G. Microchips and semiconductors
 H. Advanced or high-technology manufacturing
 I. None of the above


6.
From the following list, select all from the Energy & Natural Resources sectors in which you have direct experience with: (Experience in two or more sectors is required.)
 A. Oil extraction and production
 B. Oil refining
 C. Oil or gas pipelines
 D. LNG or other liquified gas delivery structures
 E. Gas-fired power projects
 F. Coal-fired power projects
 G. Nuclear power projects
 H. Renewable power projects (solar, wind, hydro, etc.)
 I. None of the above


7.
From the following list, select all from the Mining & Industrial Projects sectors in which you have direct experience with: (Experience in two or more sectors is required.)
 A. Mining projects
 B. Integrated mine–power–rail–port projects
 C. Basic industry manufacturing
 D. Petrochemicals
 E. None of the above


8.
From the following list, select all from the Infrastructure & Transport sectors in which you have direct experience with: (Experience in two or more sectors is required.)
 A. Airports
 B. Seaports
 C. Rail infrastructure
 D. Other transportation infrastructure
 E. Other large-scale infrastructure projects
 F. None of the above


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or
commit deception or fraud in this application and all supporting materials, including my resume, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.
1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I
understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙