Position Title
Program Support Specialist
Agency
Food and Drug Administration
Announcement Number
FDA-OO-26-PW-12976094-DSL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you claiming an eligibility under the Pathways Program for Students & Recent Graduates?
You may quality for this eligibility, if either of the following statements apply to you:
You recently graduated, within the last two years (from the date of this announcement), and you completed a qualifying degree program.
You are a Veteran and due to military service obligations you missed the two year eligibility window, but you completed a qualifying degree program within the last six years.
For the purpose of this question a "qualifying degree program" includes: Associates, Bachelors, Masters, Doctoral, professional, vocational, or technical degrees or certificate programs.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your academic transcripts.
If you are a veteran, please also submit a copy of your latest DD-214: Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Member #4 copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?
You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


3.

===== Acknowledgement of Restrictions on the Employment of Relatives by Public Officials =====
5 U.S. Code, § 3110 lays out specific and important restrictions on the employment of relatives within an agency.
A public official of a government agency may not appoint, promote, or otherwise advocate for the employment, advancement, or promotion of relatives within the agency for which the public official is employed or has control over.
Employees hired in violation of 5 U.S. Code, § 3110 will not be entitled to any pay for their period of employment, and any pay already received before the violation becomes known, will be considered as a debt to the government on the part of the employed individual.

For the purpose of this question, a "relative" is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

QUESTION:
After having read the definition of "relative" as stated above, does the Food and Drug Administration employ any of your relatives?

IF YES: You must provide the following information, for each relative employed by the FDA:

The full legal name of the relative.
The relative's relationship to you (from the list above).
If known, the relative's employing organization and position.
IF NO: Please type "No" in the box below.


4.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?


(Note: If you currently do not have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter you must request one from the Selective Service System. A copy of your proof of registration or the exemption/Status Information Letter must be provided prior to appointment.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


5.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959 AND you have NOT registered with the Selective Service System, do you have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter from the Selective Service System?


(Note: If you currently do not have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter you must request one from the Selective Service System. A copy of your proof of registration or the exemption/Status Information Letter must be provided prior to appointment.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


6.
Your responses to the all questions, and any information or documentation which you provide as part of your application, will be thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and truthfulness. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, your application will not be considered. Knowingly providing false information in your application (or submitted documentation) is a crime!
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
I understand that if I intentionally make a false statement, or commit deception or fraud in my application, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC, Sec 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR, Part 731).
I understand that any information I provide may be investigated.
I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Do you accept the conditions above?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Assessment
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Support Specialist GS-0301-07/09 position with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The following items refer to the qualifications specified in the job announcement. Please be sure to read the instructions carefully and answer the questions to the best of your ability. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the minimum qualification requirement for the Program Support Specialist, GS-0301-07 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service which includes performing a technical and administrative tasks for an office or individual, receiving incoming correspondence and visitors, keeping the appointment and meeting schedule for a manager.
 I have one full year (18 semester hours or 27 quarter hours) of graduate level education that demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.
 I have a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) criteria. Must meet one of the following: (1) Class standing- in the upper third of the graduating class in the college or university. (2) Grade-point average (G.P.A.) - have a grade-point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society - Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies listed below. These honor societies are listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (You must submit a transcript at time of application submission.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described above, that would equal 100% of the required experience/education combination for this position.
 I do not meet the education and/or experience described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the minimum qualification requirement for the Program Support Specialist, GS-0301-09 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service which includes performing office automation duties, maintaining and supporting the work of an organization, receiving and routing incoming and outgoing materials such as controlled or routine electronic correspondence, or keeping the appointment and meeting schedule for others.
 I have master's or equivalent graduate degree, or, 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., that is related to the position being filled. Please provide supporting transcripts.
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (A and B) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. Only graduate education in excess of 1 year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) may be used for this option.
 I do not meet the education/experience listed above.


Assessment and Rating Process: This vacancy will use the following assessment: Accomplishment Record.

As the next stage in the application process, you are invited to complete the Accomplishment Record (AR) portion of your application. This assessment is designed to gather examples of your past experience which will illustrate your proficiency on the critical competencies required for the position.
What You Need to Do:
For each of the upcoming prompts:
Using the text box below, please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in each critical competency. In your response, please follow these important guidelines as you write your accomplishment:
Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved.
Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.
Response Format:
Character Limit - Up to 2500 characters per response. / Style - Use Full sentences and narrative form / Structure - We recommend using the STAR Format (Situation, Task, Action, Result) to organize your response clearly and effectively.
Important Notes: - Your AR responses must be written solely by you. Do not use Al (e.g., ChatGPT or similar tools) or receive assistance from others in drafting or refining your narratives. - Do not include confidential or proprietary information in your responses. - Responses are evaluated based on the level of responsibility, complexity, and results demonstrated, aligned with the grade and position.
Tips For Success: - Review the job announcement to obtain a better understanding of the duties and specialized experience for this position to help you identify examples to share in your responses. - Choose real, past examples avoid hypothetical scenarios. - Avoid vague generalizations-Focus on what you did and the specific results of your actions. - If discussing a team effort, highlight your individual role and contributions. - Think about the results: What changed, improved, or was accomplished because of your efforts? - The strongest responses will describe your actions in detail and demonstrate independent decision-making, the complexity of the situation, and clear impact. - Responses that show comprehensive, high-level performance aligned with the role are more likely to receive the highest scores.
Accountability and Awareness: - Your application certification includes an understanding that all claims made by you may be subject to verification and that the information contained in your accomplishment record is true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and that you personally performed the actions described in your responses.


3.
Competency 1 - Administration and Management defined as:  Knowledge of planning, coordination, and execution of business functions, resource allocation, and production.


4.
Competency 2 - Technology Application defined as: Uses machines, tools, or equipment effectively; uses computers and computer applications to analyze and communicate information in the appropriate format.


5.
Competency 3 - Writing defined as: Uses correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling; communicates information (for example, facts, ideas, or messages) in a succinct and organized manner; produces written information, which may include technical material that is appropriate for the intended audience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙