Position Title
Computer Scientist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
UNSEC OSC-26-13066526-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Computer Science Series, 1550 because I have:

 A bachelor's degree in computer science or bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Computer Science Series, 1550.


2.
ZP-3: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Computer Scientist, ZP-1550-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or GS-09 grade level in the federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in evaluating remote information systems and network elements; and Coordinating with investigative or enforcement authorities to ensure compliance with law, regulation or licenses.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


3.
ZP-4: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Computer Scientist, ZP-1550-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 grade level in the federal service which includes all of the following: Ensuring compliance for remote information system networks by assessing command-and-control, mission data products, forensic reconstruction, and monitoring security during remote communications, processing, and dissemination; Coordinating with investigative or enforcement authorities to ensure compliance with law, regulation or licenses; and Providing reports or memorandums regarding remote information system analysis or compliance evaluations.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
A satellite operator under a U.S. government defense industrial base contract is using a virtual mission control center hosted by a cloud service provider. Which of the following existing federal standards and programs creates a compliance framework to assess the operator's compliance with government security requirements for cloud-hosted systems handling controlled unclassified information? (Select all that apply):

 A. CMMC
 B. FIPS 140-3
 C. NIST SP 800-53
 D. FedRAMP
 E. NIST SP 800-57


2.
What types of data would be helpful in investigating if a space-based imaging payload had suffered an unexpected, significant technical malfunction? (Select all that apply):

 A. System power distribution telemetry.
 B. Visual Inspection.
 C. Payload data processing logs.
 D. Access audit logs.
 E. Payload command history.
 F. Pre-processed and processed data files.


3.
What private enterprise-originated evidence would be useful in assessing enterprise compliance with a government technical standard? (Select all that apply):

 A. Policy and procedure.
 B. System design documentation.
 C. Blog posts.
 D. System test results.
 E. Personnel interviews.
 F. Security technical implementation guide.


4.
Because of their remote location, physical inaccessibility, and small size spacecraft are secure from adversarial attacks.

 True
 False


5.
Which of the following are best practices in maintaining an authoritative record of communications? (Select all that apply):

 A. Take meticulous notes during on-site inspections as close to real-time as possible.
 B. Leverage recommended cybersecurity controls for maintaining data integrity and record immutability.
 C. Leverage recommended cybersecurity controls for maintaining data privacy.
 D. Employ version control for digital filing systems.
 E. Ensure robust audit capabilities.


6.
Remote sensing payload commanding can be performed by:

 Onboard automated processes.
 Manual command entry.
 Command script execution.
 All of the above
 None of the above


7.
What should be the first step in preparing for a time- and cost-effective on-site inspection?

 Make travel arrangements.
 Evaluate documentation and history of interactions with entity to be inspected.
 Establish the need for and goal of the assessment.
 Coordinate inspection logistics.


8.
Which of the following questions would be uniquely useful in establishing compliance with the highest FedRAMP security control baseline?

 Who is the designated person (or role) responsible for managing development, documentation, and dissemination of the enterprise access control policy, and what organizationally defined events cause reviews of and update to access control policies and procedures?
 How is audit record analysis integrated with vulnerability scanning information, performance data, information system monitoring information, penetration test data, or other organizationally defined data to enhance the ability to identify inappropriate or unusual activity?
 What mechanisms are in place to verify individual access authorization before granting facility access and to control facility ingress and egress?
 Within how many days from the date of discovery are high-risk vulnerabilities in the system mitigated?
 How often are system audit records reviewed and analyzed for indications of inappropriate or unusual activity, and to which personnel or roles are the findings reported to?


9.
During a remote ground terminal inspection intended to verify secure site operations, what would you expect to see, and what would you ask to review and inspect? (Select all that apply):

 A. Antenna, antenna electronics (e.g., control unit, analog-to-digital converter), and antenna access and maintenance schedule and logs.
 B. Visitors taking selfies with the antennas, access control policies and procedures, and significant events causing review and change to access control policies and procedures.
 C. Site-specific cyber and physical incident response plans and personnel training logs, physical and logical mechanisms for prohibiting unauthorized information exchange.
 D. Unlockable computer racks in a common storage area, storage area access logs, security monitoring mechanisms and related audit logs and/or footage.
 E. Customer-supplier responsibility matrices for physical and logical ground station services provided by the site operator.


10.
Eavesdropping is:

 The exfiltration of data by replaying commands and capturing the telemetry or payload data as it is downlinked from the spacecraft.
 A tactic by which threat actors may seek to capture network communications throughout the ground station and radio frequency communication used for uplink and downlink communications to and from a spacecraft.
 The modification of existing software, hardware, or the transponder configuration to exfiltrate data via unintentional channels.
 The compromise of a target spacecraft hosted payload to initially access and/or persist within the system.


11.
If a system has been accredited to be in compliance with the moderate impact security baseline, then controls associated with the privacy baseline have been implemented as well.

 True
 False


12.
While reading a newsletter, you notice an announcement that a private company has gone public. This may constitute a change in ownership.

 True
 False


13.
What is the most important element of effective cryptography (note that more than one answer may be related, select the best answer)

 The bit length of the cryptographic key.
 Selecting an appropriate cryptoperiod.
 Proper implementation of cryptographic standards and recommendations, including, but not limited to, algorithm selection, key management, and key information handling.
 Selection of an approved cryptographic hash function.


14.
Which of the following is not a benefit of leveraging a third-party cloud data and service provider?

 You have complete ownership and control over your data, hardware, and software configurations.
 When architected efficiently, you can easily scale to handle increases in demand.
 You do not have to procure and maintain expensive hardware and hardware support infrastructure.
 You have greater flexibility to access your data when working in different locations.


15.
Which subsystem is primarily responsible for maintaining a spacecraft's orientation?

 Command and Data Handling
 Electrical Power
 Attitude Dynamics and Control
 Propulsion


16.
Which enterprise divisions would you expect to interact with as part of an investigation into a spacecraft anomaly with potential implications for noncompliance with government regulations? (Select all that apply):

 A. Marketing
 B. System management
 C. System operations
 D. Sales
 E. Legal
 F. Corporate services


17.
Which of the below mechanisms provide a satellite operator with auditable, automated means to ensure compliance with satellite and payload operations requirements? (Select all that apply):

 A. Embedding imaging restrictions into the image ordering process and the tasking management system to prohibit scheduling unauthorized image collections.
 B. Assigning the sales department the role of notifying customers if they had ordered imagery that could not be disseminated pursuant to law.
 C. Running an altitude verification module in the mission operations software based upon one or more data sources, including telemetry and ground-based asset tracking, that alerts operators when altitude is approaching the limits of authorization.
 D. Using a customer relationship management software with a denied-parties verification plug-in or service to manage customer orders.
 E. Manually inputting image targeting information for transmission to the spacecraft with no additional checks and no traceability to the operator.


18.
Which of the following describes technical mechanisms for implementing the principle of "Least Privilege" in a system and assessment artifacts for verifying the same?

 An insider threat program is established, personnel receive training regarding identifying and reporting insider threats, and training logs are kept by supervisors based upon employee attestations of completion.
 New system user settings grant administrative access rights for all information technology support personnel and managers, and audit reports are generated upon request.
 An organization develops and distributes a “Need to Know” policy for accessing controlled unclassified information (CUI) and documents which information systems store CUI.
 System user settings default to least access, role-based permissions are employed, access lists are regularly reported, and execution of privileged functions is logged and reported.


19.
The Supply Chain Risk Management and System and Services Acquisition security requirement families can together:

 Create a foundational set of requirements that enables an operator to broadly assess security risks to their space system and acquire technical solutions to mitigate those risks.
 Be used in concert to mitigate all risks associated with threat actor reconnaissance of an operator’s supply chain and product delivery mechanisms in order to plan future campaigns and perpetuate other threat tactics.
 Govern how an operator evaluates third-party ground service providers prior to commitment to a contract and structures contracts to ensure confidentiality and integrity of controlled unclassified information.
 None of the above


20.
There is a dataset with millions of rows and dozens of columns. You need to analyze the data to generate a report, which will include data visualization. Which of the following combinations of Python libraries would be appropriate?

 NumPy, Matplotlib, TensorFlow
 NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib
 Flask, SQL, Pandas
 Django, NumPy, PlotPy


21.
A satellite operator is deploying software related to the control of its spacecraft to a third-party service provider. In order to protect its intellectual property, the operator should:

 Train the third-party service provider on the specifics of the source code so that the third party understands how it works, and deploy the source code to the third-party’s operating environment so that the third-party can perform its own maintenance on the code.
 Not use third-party services because insufficient controls exist to mitigate the risk of intellectual property theft.
 Exercise strict access control and versioning of the source code and deploy only a compiled executable to the third-party’s operating environment.
 Train the third-party service provider on the specifics of the source code to understand how it works but deploy only a compiled executable to the third-party’s operating environment.


22.
An EW attack can (Select all that apply):

 A. Cause automated processes to initiate early or late by targeting the spacecraft event time.
 B. Adversely impact the spacecraft’s ability to maintain its orbit.
 C. Trigger automated tasks to execute, causing erratic spacecraft behavior, or be processed erroneously, causing downlink of incorrect telemetry and threatening the spacecraft’s reliability and integrity.
 D. Can be mitigated by spacecraft bus authentication and on-board message encryption.
 E. None of the above


23.
The ______ segment of a space system has historically been considered the most vulnerable due to being prone to a wide range of attacks, from direct physical attacks to computer network intrusions.

 Space
 Link
 Mission control center
 Ground


24.
Which of the following are supply chain risks for space systems cybersecurity? Select the two clearest risks.

 A. The organization that built spacecraft communications components withholds technical details pertaining to encryption processes.
 B. The spacecraft bus mission operations center, which is operated by a third-party service provider, is on an isolated network.
 C. A third-party cloud service provider is contracted to provide the logical resources accredited at the FedRAMP high level to process mission data after they have been downlinked.
 D. Due to schedule constraints, quality control testing is expedited for a component sourced from a new foreign fabrication facility.


25.
Most programming languages contain error handling associated with the performance of the code's specific function, and which includes a "finally" block. What is the purpose of the finally block?

 To execute code only if you throw an exception
 To execute code only if you don’t throw an exception
 To report the error code for that type of error
 To execute code regardless of an exception being thrown or not
 To catch all exceptions in the code


26.
Threat actors may attempt to fully replace the cryptographic keys on the spacecraft, which could lock out the mission operators and enable the threat actor's communication channel. Threat actors, therefore, may exploit weaknesses in the key management strategy. The U.S. Government recommendation for cryptographic key management is standardized by:

 NIST SP 800-171
 NIST SP 800-53
 NIST SP 800-57
 FIPS 140-3


27.
Which of the following is a common type of cybersecurity attack that satellite operators, specifically, must be concerned with?

 Ransomware
 Spoofing
 SQL Injection
 Phishing


28.
You are inspecting a facility and assess that certain evidence that you examine suggests noncompliance with U.S. Government regulation. What do you do?

 Accuse the private entity of violating the regulation and threaten enforcement action based only on what you have seen.
 Dynamically identify additional information that will assist in evidencing noncompliance and request to review documentation, observe processes, and interview personnel to contribute to the ongoing assessment.
 End the inspection early so that you can think about next steps.
 Continue the inspection as-planned and flag the information for consideration and follow up.


29.
You are assessing foreign control over a private entity's technical operations of its satellite constellation. What types of corporate characteristics might you examine (Select all that apply):

 A. Corporate management and Board of Directors governance.
 B. Legal structure and related contracts.
 C. Location and ownership of operating assets.
 D. Personnel (staffing) for satellite operations.
 E. Technical capability and capacity for satellite operations.
 F. None of the above


30.
In what circumstance might you ask to review a spacecraft's housekeeping telemetry?

 When verifying data collection characteristics based upon instrument acceptance criteria.
 During spacecraft assembly and environmental testing.
 During a bus anomaly investigation.
 When performing an on-site “bent pipe” ground terminal inspection.
 After finding evidence suggesting variance between accurate and represented spectral characteristics of a sensor.


31.
In order to be compliant with NIST SP-800 171r3, the acquisition of external system services must (Select all that apply):

 A. Include the definition of security requirements to be satisfied by external system service providers.
 B. Include documentation that the acquiring party is fully responsible for the implementation of security requirements needed to protect the confidentiality and integrity of controlled unclassified information.
 C. Include the definition and documentation of user roles and responsibilities with regard to external system services, including shared responsibilities with external service providers.
 D. Include the implementation of processes, methods, and techniques to monitor security requirement compliance by external service providers.
 E. All of the above.
 F. None of the above.


32.
You receive network activity logs from an operator's cloud environment that you have been told show network traffic of payload command and data transit through a globally distributed ground terminal network. You believe some of the ground terminals are not authorized for use. What additional information do you need to identify noncompliant activity? (Select all that apply):

 A. A description of service designations as seen in the logs and the function of the service performed.
 B. Payload data file contents.
 C. Payload command dictionary.
 D. Dropped packet errors.
 E. Ground station services network designators.


33.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was easiest for you to answer and why.


34.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was hardest for you to answer and why.


35.
In 250 characters or less, answer which question in this assessment was the most memorable and why.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


36.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired. I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙