Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
RG-12995615-26-BLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Recent Graduates Program
The recent graduate program is for those who have graduated, within the past two years, from a qualifying educational institution or certificate program. The recent graduate program offers career development with training and mentorship. You must apply within two years of getting your degree or certificate (veterans have up to six years to apply due to their military service obligation). 

For more information, review: USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources or Learn more about the recent graduate program...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you or will you complete your academic program of study or degree program from a college, university, or vocational school within 2 years of July 2026? (Veterans precluded from applying due to their military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the responses that best describes your qualifications for the GS-07 Human Resources Specialist (Recent Graduate) position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 level that demonstrates experience performing administrative or human resources-related work, such as assisting with personnel actions, staffing activities, document preparation, records management, customer service, maintaining data, or performing similar support functions.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year (18 semester hours or equivalent) of graduate-level coursework or law school. (Must submit transcripts.) Or A bachelor's degree, AND meet one of the following: Grade point average of 3.0 or higher (on a 4.0 scale) for all undergraduate coursework or courses completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; Grade point average of 3.45 or higher (on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study or Class standing in the upper one-third of your graduating class, college, university, or major subdivision. ;Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies;
 I have a Combination of Education and Experience: A combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements are at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours or equivalent by 18. Add the two percentages.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements.


3.
Select the responses that best describes your qualifications for the GS-09 Human Resources Specialist (Recent Graduate) position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level that demonstrates experience supporting recruitment, staffing, personnel administration, HR advisory services, organizational management, business operations, or related administrative work involving research, analysis, customer service, document preparation, or process improvement.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience: A combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements are at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours or equivalent by 36. Add the two percentages.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information on and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin working with the Civil Division. I understand that such actions may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I also understand that any information that I provide in my application submission may be investigated. Do you agree with the above statement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙