Position Title
HR Officer
Agency
U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command
Announcement Number
DAST-26-12952623-DCIPS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) Employee

Do you meet the following?
current Department of the Army DCIPS employee; and
occupy a permanent position without time limitation.
Supporting documentation:  You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action that reflects "1" or "2" in block 24 (Tenure), "2" in block 34 (Position Occupied), and, if applicable, your highest grade held on a permanent basis along with your application/resume package.

To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This is a Title 10 Excepted Service position covered by the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS). Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a DCIPS position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a two year trial period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V2005. While serving a trial period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year trial period?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a HR Officer position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Minimum Qualifications:
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a HR Officer at the GG-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.


 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/GG-13 grade level in the Federal service which 1) serving as the primary Civilian HR Advisor providing authoritative guidance on position classification, DCIPS performance management, staffing, employee relations, and recognition programs.; 2) monitoring and supervising civilian recruiting, staffing, placement, and employee development functions for ACIC worldwide operations, ensuring optimal personnel utilization and training readiness.; 3) developing comprehensive HR programs supporting ACIC objectives in counterintelligence, human intelligence, cyber, TEMPEST, technical surveillance countermeasures, and polygraph disciplines; AND 4) developing HR guidance, policies, and procedures impacting command employees worldwide, serving as authority on Federal, DoD, and Army hiring guidelines.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙