Position Title
Supervisory IT Program Manager
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13020325 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Treasury Department employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current Treasury employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Treasury employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of Treasury employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 I am a Department of Treasury employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Department of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-15, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 
- Management of enterprise platform operations and managed services program activities, including operational oversight, service delivery, and change and configuration management, AND
- Acquisition management, including preparing requirements and statements of work, evaluation of proposals, financial planning, cost analysis, and vendor performance management; AND
- Experience demonstrating strong customer service skills, such as managing escalations, preparing executive briefings and communicating with all levels of stakeholders.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the specialized experience, the individual must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the nine competencies listed below: 
Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Decision Making, Information Management, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Problem Solving, Teamwork, Technical Competence. 
Do you have IT-related experience in all nine competencies?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙