Position Title
Interior Designer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13042354-26-IS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please select the appropriate response(s) regarding your referral eligibility:
 A. Promotion Eligible
 B. Change to Lower Grade Eligible
 C. Reassignment Eligible
 D. Re-promotion Eligible (previously held grade for at least one year)
 E. Interchange Agreement Eligible (I am in the Excepted Service)
 F. I am a Federal Wage Service (WG/WL/WS) employee
 G. I am not a current Federal Employee
 H. Unsure or this does not apply to me


5.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR)

Education

Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- interior design or other field that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in interior design, interior architecture, or interior environmental design; or passage of the National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ) examination.

or

Experience

Specialized Experience: Experience that required the performance of work concerned with the design and alteration of interior spaces to meet functional and aesthetic needs such as:
Identifying, researching, and creatively solving problems pertaining to the function and quality of the interior environment.
Performing services relative to interior spaces, including programming, design analysis, space planning and aesthetics, using specialized knowledge of interior construction, building systems and components, building codes, equipment, materials, and furnishings.
Preparing drawings and documents relative to the design of interior spaces in order to enhance and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
Coordinating and integrating the mechanical, electrical, and structural engineering disciplines within the interior context.
Managing projects, developing cost estimates, evaluating bid proposals, reviewing construction documents, participating in on-site construction visits, conducting pre- and post-occupancy evaluations, developing standards for efficient space management, etc.

 I meet the IOR requirement by having the education (transcript required).
 I meet the IOR requirement by having the specialized experience.
 I DO NOT meet the IOR as described above; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service.
Specialized experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Monitoring contractor performance for quality and adequacy of service; Independently supervising contract painters in the performance of their work to include selection of paint colors, scheduling of work projects and inspection of final service provided; Preparing drawings or review those prepared by Architectural Engineers which include finish schedules, renderings, graphics, signage, resource coordination, furniture specifications, architectural detailing and coordination of color and finishes; Explaining services to be provided, the process to be followed and the benefits derived through a properly designed office space; Presenting oral, written, and graphic proposals; Working with technical independence under general supervision; Managing or determining costs or adhering to pre-determined budgets; Evaluating completed work in terms of objectives achieved; Independently developing a furniture replacement program, scheduling areas for replacement and/or upgrading and determining the proper furnishings and accessories necessary to complete interior design schemes; Independently evaluating and determining the disposition of new, excess, replacement and damaged furniture/furnishings; Coordinating the pickup and delivery of items; Maintaining records on delivery, storage and disposition of items; Preparing necessary paperwork for purchase repairs, redistribution and turn-in; Independently maintaining complete interior plans, determine appropriate locations for all signs, compile message lists and coordinate all phases of projects; Independently developing interior design standards by coordinating all aspects of the program to include the coordination of paints and wall coverings, floor and ceiling materials, lighting, furniture, furnishings and window treatments, cubicle curtains, bedspreads and blankets; Independently preparing necessary visual aids, such as architectural drawings, sketches, renderings, color boards, and physical models for presentation of projects; Independently developing and maintaining a comprehensive resource library of interior design literature; Maintaining good working relationships with numerous and varied commercial vendors to assure that functional, current, modern design concepts are available for application or consideration; Independently preparing equipment and furniture listings for all major renovations and construction projects; Evaluating existing furniture and equipment and making appropriate determination of items needed for projects; Reviewing all renovation and construction projects with Engineering Service and providing design consultation where needed; Independently developing and maintaining a systematic record of all interior design projects to include itemized lists of all materials used such as flooring, wall covering, furniture, etc. with resources; Independently preparing and maintaining interior design budget; Developing cost estimates to cover furnishings required for projects included in budget submission; Ensuring selected items are appropriate and adequate but not excessive in quantity or cost to project; Estimating furniture costs, moving costs, etc. for other services; Ensuring that approved standard colors and materials are used and that the interests and needs of the facility are presented and considered; Assisting by producing drawings showing space planning, partition deletion/additions and HO-9 requirements to establish feasibility of proposed spaces changes; Serving as a member on the Construction and Equipment Furnishing Committees; Independently designing and developing written specifications for fabrications and installations of window treatments, stage draperies, etc.; Conducting systematic evaluations of program aspects to ensure requirements and standards are followed; Evaluating various programs and advising leadership of defects and required action for conformity; Supervising interior design students as assigned in accomplishment of design projects; Purchasing interior design items with values up to $3,000.00 using purchase cards; Verifying fund availability prior to making purchases and complying with single purchase and cycle limits placed on the card; Reconciling payment charges promptly; Ensuring goods and services ordered are received; Submitting a 5-Year Interior Design Capital Plan at the first quarter of every fiscal year; Attending weekly project meetings; Serving as a Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) for all funded projects associated with Halls and Walls which includes reviewing payments and negotiating contract adjustments; Updating Project Tracking Reports (PTR) for assigned projects; Coordinating all furniture moves with the use of a contracted vendor; Coordinating and consulting with representatives of such fields as architecture, mechanical structural engineering, and landscape architecture; Using knowledge of related technical fields (textiles, casework, floor covering, wall covering, interior directional graphics and paint properties) to formulate working drawings and specifications; Inspecting the physical installation (site visits during construction, pre and post occupancy evaluations) or projects to ensure correct execution; Initiating and answering correspondence; Discussing availability and costs of materials, maintaining detailed knowledge of all sources through correspondent, contact with manufacturers' representatives, and visits to important markets and professional meetings; Evaluating specific new materials and products offered by manufacturers and make recommendations as to their suitability based on consideration of color design, utility, durability and conformance with standards and specifications; Determining appropriate design and decor; Maintaining complete interior graphics program and developing furniture replacement program; Originating orders for furnishing, floor and wall covering and all other interior related finishes; Evaluating the deposition of new, excess and replacement furnishings and maintain a comprehensive resource library; Conducting in-depth studies and analysis of areas to be designed to establish requirements so that completed projects will meet the practical needs and limitations of the areas designated, managing costs, determining budgets, or adhering to pre-established terms; Reviewing architectural drawings and advising on changes and modification as required by the project's functional objectives; Developing total interior finish and color schedule; Recommending approval, rejection, substitution or correction for color, pattern, texture and/or design on all specified materials and shop drawings; Recommending adaptations and modifications of precedents to meet special design requirements of project specifications; Compiling complete project data and records on color, development of the specifications and correspondence during construction and approved materials; Supplying information about the functional use of color and materials based on continuous research and experience; Checking submissions for compliance with specifications including finish scheduling, format conformance and materials sections of the specification; Reviewing proposals with representative presenting findings and offering suggestions for a color design conforming to requirements; Working with, and at the level of, professional architects and engineers for whom a highly specialized support function is provided.
OR,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, with a major study in interior design or other field that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in interior design, interior architecture, or interior environmental design, or passage of the National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ) examination, or superior academic achievement. Superior academic achievement is defined as the completion of all the requirements of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, which is based on (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average of 3.0 or higher as recorded on an official transcript, or as based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum, or (3) honor society membership. (Transcript required).
OR,
Combination of Experience & Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (Transcript required).
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, with a major study in interior?design or other field that included or was supplemented by at least 30 semester hours in interior design, interior architecture, or interior environmental design, or passage of the National Council for Interior Design Qualification (NCIDQ) examination, or superior academic achievement.
 I possess a combination of experience and education. My total qualifying experience as a percentage of the specialized experience required plus my total creditable education as a percentage of the education required equals at least 100 percent.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙