Position Title
Deputy Director (EEO)
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26IX12971549BJ Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently a NLRB employee in the Excepted Service?

If you indicate that you are eligible by selecting "yes" for this question, you MUST submit documentation such as a Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that verifies your eligibility.  (The SF-50 block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2")
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


2.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


3.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To qualify for this position at the GS-15 level, applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of a Supervisory Attorney Advisor (General), GS-905-15.

Specialized experience includes:
Experience leading, directing, or evaluating Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) programs, policies, or initiatives involving Federal civil rights laws, EEOC management directives and regulations, and workforce equity or compliance matters.
Experience conducting training on EEO program or related issues.
Experience providing legal advice and oversight regarding EEO complaint investigations, settlement negotiations, final agency decisions, regulatory compliance, and employment law matters.
Experience supervising or providing technical direction to professional staff performing EEO, legal, investigative, or compliance-related work, including assigning work, reviewing work products, and ensuring compliance with applicable requirements.
Experience analyzing workforce data, personnel policies, organizational practices, or program operations to identify systemic issues, barriers, or compliance risks and develop corrective recommendations or action plans.
Experience conducting or overseeing complex EEO complaint investigations, preparing investigative reports or legal analyses, and reaching resolutions involving sensitive or high-profile employment matters.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level and meet all of the specialized experience listed above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


2.
To be considered for this position, you must have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first profession law degree (LL.B. or J.D). Do you meet the above education requirements? (Submission of transcripts are required for this position.)

(Current NLRB Attorneys are not required to submit a copy of their transcripts. However, current employees within 3 years from receiving their juris doctorate degree, must provide a transcript with their application package.)
 Yes. I have successfully completed a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited college and/or university.
 No. I do not possess a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited college and/or university.


3.
To be considered for this position, you must certify your Bar Membership is in good standing.

(Your active Bar license must reference Bar number and indicate the status of good standing.)
 Yes, I certify that I am an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution. I have provided a copy of my active Bar license/certification.
 No, I am not an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution.


4.
Your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references submitted. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
Understand this warning, and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes. I verify that my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if submitted supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙