Position Title
Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-RF-26-12974576 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee and occupy a position equivalent to the GS-14 grade level or higher?
 
To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee in a position equivalent to the GS-14 grade level or higher, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action Form reflecting your status.

 Yes
 No


2.
Political Appointee - In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5).

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).

Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).

A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a PHS Commissioned Corps Officer?

Public Health Service (PHS) Commissioned Corps Officer (this includes active duty officers and inactive reserve officers in the Corps). NOTE: You must submit a copy of your current personnel orders. Please remove you SSN from document before submission.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the Basic Qualification Requirements for Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, RF-0602-00.
 I have Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, or equivalent, from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association; or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.
 I have a Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy Medicine degree, all candidates must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting. Select the response that most accurately describes your graduate training background.
 I have completed a 1-year internship program which involved a broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have completed the first year of a residency program which involved training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have completed a fellowship program which involved advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital, or an institution accredited in the United States for such training.
 I do not have the graduate training as described above.


3.
From the description below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume/curriculum vitae MUST fully demonstrate the physician experience.
 I have five years of graduate training.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service such as executive-level experience leading and/or providing consultation and statistical, epidemiological, clinical, behavioral, and laboratory research services to assist state and local health departments as well as national, state and local non-governmental organizations in the planning, development, implementation and overall improvement of infectious diseases prevention programs.
 I do not have the graduate training/ specialized experience described above.


4.
Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. If so, please provide a supporting documentation with your application.
 Yes
 NO


5.
Describe your high degree of public health prominence and expertise, and distinguished record of accomplishments in the field such that the individual can readily command the respect of national and international public health communities and stimulate their interest in CDC's public health research, programs, and analyses involving the evaluation, research, and identification of causes or sources of problems in the area of HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and TB.


6.
Describe your experience in mobilizing, collaborating, and leading across and within organizational boundaries in order to promote HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and TB prevention and accelerate health impact and enhance protection for those at high risk.


7.
Describe your experience to deal effectively with high-level government officials, foreign ministries of health, scientific and academic communities, national and international medical and health-related organizations, community and non-governmental groups, U.S. and global media, and the international public at large.


8.
Describe your ability to lead people toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Inherent to this qualification is the ability to provide a workplace that fosters the development of others, facilitates cooperation and teamwork, and supports constructive resolution of conflicts.


9.
Describe your ability to meet organizational goals and customer expectations. Inherent to this qualification is the ability to make decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks.


10.
Describe your ability to manage human, financial, and information resources strategically.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?  Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


12.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume and any required supporting documentation. I further understand that my resume must not exceed two pages and provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge, skill, and abilities as required in the vacancy announcement, including evidence of the Technical Qualifications (TQs) listed in the announcement. I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙