Position Title
AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12790463-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 11, 2025 to Tuesday, November 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Temporary full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Temporary full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


2.
Are you an Immediately Promotable E-8/SMSgt not to exceed E-9/CMSgt?
 I am an Immediately Promotable E-8/SMSgt.
 I am an E-9/CMSgt.
 I do not possess one of the above listed ranks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting parts, subassemblies and components, and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification. In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience demonstrating the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments of lower grade personnel. AND Experience which required the review of work requirements and establishing priorities to meet deadlines. AND Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. AND Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. AND Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently have a Secret Security Clearance with positive NAC, or are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret Security Clearance with positive NAC within the first year of employment?

 Yes
 No


5.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙