Position Title
Cloud Administrator
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
OISM-184-26-12968215-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce?  For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from a position in a Federal agency OTHER THAN the Department of Commerce? 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a United States citizen?

 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No


2.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you learn about this position?
College or University
Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
Conference or Meeting
Professional Organization
Job Fair
Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
USAJOBS search
NIST Careers website
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
None of the above
Other


4.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
Student Veterans of America National Conference
Maryland Community College Week
Colorado Trade School Week
Maryland Trade School Week
Colorado Community College Week
American Physical Society Global Physics Summit
Colorado State School Week
Maryland State School Week
Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineering Annual Conference & Expo
RecruitMilitary Fair
SkillsUSA National Leadership & Skills Conference
Disabled American Veterans Career Fair
Society for the Advancement of Biology Education Research Annual Meeting
High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
Service Academy Career Conference
American Chemical Society Meeting
American Legion National Convention
DC Religious School Week
Denver Religious School Week
Not Applicable


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have 1 year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level (ZP-III at NIST) as described in the vacancy announcement and it is clearly demonstrated in your resume?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fired or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
1.
Resume reflects one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade/band performing the following duties:
Providing system administration and development for Hybrid Cloud Services.
Installing, configuring, and maintaining components of a hybrid cloud ecosystem.
Diagnosing and resolving systemic technical failures and emergent security vulnerabilities within a hybrid cloud environment.
 Yes, the resume reflects the specialized experience requirements.
 No, the resume does not reflect the specialized experience requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙