Position Title
Supervisory Audiologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12911209-26-TH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Supervisory Audiologist  position.  Be sure to read and understand the 'Area of Consideration' and the 'Qualifications' for this position before submitting your application. If you have questions, please email me at Teresa.hammond@va.gov



The following are basic requirements for appointment as an Audiologist in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA Audiologists in the General Schedule (GS)-0665 series.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education. Select the best response that describes your education.
(1) Doctor of Audiology (AUD) from an audiology program recognized by the Accreditation Commission for Audiology Education (ACAE) or Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). HR office staff and management officials may verify a program's accreditation from ACAE at acaeaccred.org and CAA at caa.asha.org.
OR
(2) Other doctoral degree in hearing science or a directly related field from an institution accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education
 Yes
 No


2.
Licensure. 
Individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice audiology at the doctoral level in a United States state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.

 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide your license information. 
Name on License:
Issuing State or Territory: 
Complete license number: 
Expiration Date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
English Language Proficiency.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English Language?
Audiologist candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision.
Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of the qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and licensure, where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic or assignment specific requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
(1) Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
(4) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional licensure that meets all the basic or assignment specific qualification requirements of this standard must maintain the required credential as a condition of employment in the occupation.


In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for appointment at grade level specified.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-13 Supervisory Audiologist:
Experience: At least two years of experience as a professional audiologist, with at least one year comparable to the next lower grade level.

Assignment
Supervisory audiologist spend 25% or more of their time providing technical and administrative supervision. Supervisory audiologists in this assignment serve as assistant chiefs. Assistant chiefs in this assignment serve as full assistants to a service chief, share the full scope of delegated managerial responsibilities, and serve as the acting service chief in the absence of the service chief. They make decisions affecting staff and other resources. They may be delegated full administrative and clinical responsibility for planning and directing the staff assignments in various clinical settings. They encourage professional development, create an environment of learning and serve as a mentor to staff audiologists. Assistant chiefs are responsible for the supervision, administrative management, and direction of the program services assigned to them. Assistant chiefs may ensure compliance with accrediting agency and regulatory requirements, monitor staff performance, and develop and implement programs based on Veterans' needs and current research findings. Duties include but are not limited to: resolving staff conflicts that might interfere with the service delivery; identifying continuing education and training needs; and other clinical and administrative responsibilities to ensure that the mission of the service and the medical center has been satisfied. They may interview candidates for positions, and recommend appointments, advancements, or disciplinary actions when appropriate. They may develop position descriptions and functional statements and are responsible for professional and administrative management of an assigned area. They may make selections, assign personnel, and serve as a mentor to help employees develop their full potential. Assistant chiefs in this assignment maintain interdepartmental relationships with other services to accomplish medical center goals as well as foster and maintain community contacts. They may develop and initiate new assessment and treatment programs and may develop policies and procedures. Assistant chiefs in this assignment independently provide audiologic services at all levels of complexity and consult with peers and supervisors as appropriate.
 Yes
 No


In addition to the KSAs required at the full performance level, the candidate must demonstrate the KSAs identified below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)
(a) Skill in communicating established performance benchmarks to a service or equivalent organizational department.
(b) Skill in implementing continual performance improvement activities to meet performance benchmarks.
(c) Ability to perform a full scope of managerial responsibilities.
(d) Ability to lead audiologists, speech-language pathologists, and/or other professionals within associated disciplines.
(e) Ability to develop contingencies to ensure continual service operations.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙