Position Title
Assistant Special Agent in Charge (Temporary Promotion)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
26-OIG-IMP-09-TH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following merit promotion categories?
Current Federal civilian employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current Excepted service employee covered by an Interchange Agreement
Former Federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA)
Land Management Employee eligible under Public Law 114-47
Other competitive category not listed above (you must submit proof of eligibility)


 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Using your own words and without help from Artificial Intelligence tools or consultants, please provide clear and original responses to the technical assessment questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you an employee of the Department of Commerce, Office of Inspector General?
 Yes
 No


2.
Focusing on your OIG experience, what knowledge, leadership qualities and investigative oversight experience have prepared you to transition from a GS-13 investigator role into a GS-14 leadership position? (Your response must be limited to 300 words)


3.
How would you balance maintaining operational effectiveness and morale while addressing personnel issues involving violations of OIG policy, federal regulations, or executive orders? (Your response must be limited to 300 words)


4.
When an employee receives positive feedback or achieves a significant result, what steps would you take to ensure their contributions are fairly recognized and professionally highlighted? (Your response must be limited to 300 words)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙