Position Title
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERSHIP SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-13048092-AR-26-211 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Command Admin Office
 AOC 2: Command Admin Office (This includes the State Surgeon Cell, Medical Detachment and Public Affairs Office)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O2 - O3 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration? Do you have experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 36 months experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions? Do you have experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations? Do you have experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures? Do you have experience preparing written communications and oral presentations? Do you have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No, I have not.


4.
Are you related to anyone employed by this agency?
 Yes, I am related to an employee of this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙