Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-CS-13070478-26-BF-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


This announcement is ONLY open to qualified former VA career/career-conditional employees who are CTAP eligible. Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.


1.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center (https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition).To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 I am a qualified former VA career/career-conditional employee who is CTAP eligible, a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm: I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, I am applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than my current position; AND, My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 I am NOT CTAP eligible, therefore I do not meet the area of consideration for this vacancy.


The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience that qualifies you for the Program Analyst GS-0343-14 position. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-13) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-13 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is characterized by expert-level, independent experience with information resource planning, application of technology, and program/project management at an enterprise or nationwide scale, including experience leading or providing technical direction to team members on tasks or projects. The applicant must document a minimum of 1 year of experience independently designing, developing, configuring, troubleshooting, and leading enterprise-level implementation of electronic tools and systems used within the government space, such as SharePoint, Power Platform (Power Apps, Power Automate, Power BI), internet/intranet web development, and/or SQL Database. This requires experience with, at a minimum, design, development, maintenance/troubleshooting, and providing expert advice, mentorship, or technical leadership to others on these systems. Experience limited to observation, training, or team participation without direct individual ownership of design, development, troubleshooting, or leadership does not meet this requirement.
 Yes, my resume reflects minimum of one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 No, my experience does not meet the minimum qualification requirements listed above.



The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In-Grade requirement.


3.
At the GS-14 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-13 or held the GS-14 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I have completed one (1) full year or 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level or above. *MUST submit a non-award SF-50 illustrating Time-in-Grade requirement.
 No, I have not completed one (1) full year or 52 weeks at the GS-13 grade level or above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙