Position Title
Creative Arts Therapist (Music)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12909059-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Recreation Therapist position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. The following questions will address basic eligibility requirements for the Recreation Therapist position. Please select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education: Do you have one of the following education degrees listed below? (Must submit transcript at time of application)
(a) A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, in music therapy, or in music with an emphasis in music therapy. The degree must be approved by the National Association for Schools of Music and/or the American Music Therapy Association.

OR,

(b) A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, and must be a board-certified music therapist (MT-BC) approved by the Certification Board for Music Therapists (CBMT). If hired under this education, the certification cannot be waived.
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification: Recreation Therapist. Applicants must be a MT-BC approved by the CBMT. If hired under paragraph 3b(5)(b), certification cannot be waived.

Are you certified by the CBMT?
 Yes
 No - Requesting temporary appointment as Graduate Recreation Therapist
 Not Applicable


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Grade Requirements GS-07: There are no additional education or experience requirements above basic eligibility requirements for the GS-07 grade. Employees at this level serve in an entry level position as a creative arts therapist (music). 

Do you meet the basic requirements as listed in questions 1 - 2?
 Yes
 No


4.
Grade Requirement GS-09: Applicant applying at the GS-09 grade level must have at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level such as:  Plan and organize music therapy interventions for persons diagnosed with chronic or life-threatening conditions, as well as their families and in collaboration with an interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary team. Including but are not limited to the use of music listening, singing, playing, creating, and improvising for therapeutic or palliative treatment.

or
a master's degree in creative arts therapy (music) may be substituted for the required one year of professional creative arts therapist (music) experience. (Transcripts required if substituting education)

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-09 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

i. Ability to perform a varied repertoire of popular, folk, and traditional songs appropriate for use in a clinical setting using at least two of the following: keyboard, voice, guitar, percussion or other musical instruments suitable to a clinical setting.
ii. Knowledge of the roles and meaning of music in various cultures and subcultures.
iii. Knowledge to design, develop, or adapt unique music therapy methods for assessment, treatment, or palliation and evaluation procedures.
iv. Skill to apply objectivity and insight to respond constructively to both positive and negative reactions while maintaining a safe environment for the patient and therapist.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Grade Requirements GS-11: Applicants applying at the GS-11 grade level must have at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level such as: Knowledge and the ability to exercise independent judgment, administer and interpret music therapy assessments, and utilize clinical knowledge to develop unconventional assessment and interview approaches to effectively elicit information. They review pre-evaluation data in the medical record upon admission or through consult. They conduct, analyze, interpret, and report assessment data across functional domains (i.e., behavioral, cognitive, communicative, emotional/affective, physical, sensory, and social) as well as musical knowledge, skills, and abilities. They plan, organize, and implement developmentally and situationally appropriate and evidence-based comprehensive music therapy interventions for persons diagnosed with chronic or life-threatening conditions, as well as their families, and in collaboration with an interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary team.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-11 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

i. Knowledge of the roles and meaning of music in various cultures and subcultures, how culture influences identity formation, concepts of health and pathology, and understanding of the role of music therapy and how music therapy is practiced.
ii. Knowledge of current methods of music therapy assessment, treatment, and evaluation related to human growth and development, musical development, diagnostic classifications, etiology, symptomatology, and prognosis in formulating complex treatment plans, including the contraindications of music therapy for individuals and groups.
iii. Ability to design, develop, or adapt unique music therapy methods for assessment, treatment or palliation, and evaluation procedures for complex clinical cases, through a broad range of specialized music therapy services for various and emerging patient populations.
iv. Ability to use music therapy interventions to provide opportunities to work through treatment issues, including emotional disturbances, by establishing a safe environment for the patient to understand the symbolic expression of their musical product, process, and experience as it relates to recovery and wellness.
v. Ability to apply effective use of professional skill, objectivity, and insight to respond constructively to both positive and negative reactions, establish and maintain a therapeutic relationship with professional boundaries to reflect trusting, empathetic, and respectful interactions.
vi. Ability to apply current research literature and co-facilitate treatment with professionals from other disciplines, the uses of the creative arts therapies and recreation therapy, as well as understanding emerging models and trends in music therapy.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙