Position Title
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12923134-AR-26-086 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Logistics in Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Logistics in Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS 09 grade level that provided knowledge of supply program relations, knowledge of specialized methods and techniques to analyze and evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of programs and operations, ability to analyze and resolved difficult issues in problems in supply processes, work methods, supply data management and supply operations; ability to develop and implement procedures and knowledge of a variety of technical supply operations?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such degree?
 Yes
 No


3.
In detail, explain your experience planning, organizing and managing property accountability and supply functions to include accountability management.


4.
In detail, explain your experience directing the loan of equipment between units within the command.


5.
In detail, explain your experience providing guidance to units on supply regulations.


6.
In detail, explain your experience managing excess equipment and acquiring shortages within the Army enterprise systems and within budget requirements that ensure equipment readiness within the command.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙