Position Title
Director, Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality
Agency
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
Announcement Number
HHS-SAMHSA-ES-26-13015583 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government? Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a former career SES member who has completed an SES probationary period and left the SES under circumstances that did not make you ineligible for reinstatement (e.g., poor performance or disciplinary reasons)?
(If yes, must submit a SF-50 showing validation of eligibility for reinstatement)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SES member applying non-competitively and the QRB has already certified your ECQs?

(If yes, must submit a copy of your QRB certification and current SF-50)
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Are you a SES Candidate Development Program (SCDP) Graduate who was selected through at least civil service-wide competition for the CDP and the QRB has already certified your ECQs?

(If yes, must submit SCDP Certificate validating certification of your ECQs)
 Yes
 No


5.
Describe your experience leading the development and implementation of complex epidemiological studies, national surveys, and other public health data collection initiatives related to substance use and/or mental health. Include examples of how you designed and managed long-term epidemiological investigations; applied quantitative and qualitative analytical methods; identified and implemented innovative public health strategies; and communicated complex findings to executive leadership and senior federal, state, tribal, or other external stakeholders. Describe the impact your work had on policy, program development, or public health practice.
 I have demonstrated extensive executive-level experience leading the development and implementation of complex national epidemiological studies, surveys, and public health data collection initiatives related to substance use and/or mental health. Applies advanced quantitative and qualitative analytical methods to long-term epidemiological investigations, develops innovative analytical strategies, and effectively communicates complex findings to executive leadership and senior federal, state, tribal, and other stakeholders, resulting in significant improvements to public health policy, programs, or practice.
 I have demonstrated substantial experience leading epidemiological studies or public health data collection activities related to substance use and/or mental health. Applies quantitative and qualitative analytical methods to evaluate findings, communicates results to senior leadership and stakeholders, and contributes to the development or improvement of public health policies, programs, or practices.
 I have demonstrated limited experience supporting epidemiological studies or public health data collection activities and conducting analyses related to substance use or mental health. Has some experience communicating findings and contributing to program decisions but has limited responsibility for leading studies or influencing policy or organizational decision-making.
 I have not demonstrated experience leading epidemiological studies, public health data collection initiatives, or analytical efforts related to substance use or mental health, or applying study results to inform policy, program, or practice.


6.
Describe your experience leading multidisciplinary staff in developing and executing strategic plans, designing and implementing national-level data collection or analytic initiatives, and using data to drive organizational decision-making, public health policy, and program improvement. Include examples of how you established strategic priorities, monitored organizational performance, managed complex projects, and influenced federal, state, or tribal policy through evidence-based recommendations.
 I have demonstrated extensive executive leadership experience developing and executing strategic plans, directing national data collection and analytical initiatives, leading multidisciplinary staff, and using performance data to drive organizational decision-making, public health policy, and program improvement. Has a proven record of influencing federal, state, or tribal policy through evidence-based recommendations and successfully managing large-scale initiatives with measurable national impact.
 I have demonstrated substantial leadership experience developing strategic plans, managing analytical projects, supervising staff, and using performance data to improve organizational effectiveness and inform policy or program decisions. Has contributed to significant organizational or governmental initiatives with measurable results.
 I have demonstrated limited experience leading strategic planning or analytical initiatives and using data to support program operations or organizational improvements. Has some supervisory or project leadership experience but limited responsibility for enterprise-wide decision-making or policy development.
 I have not demonstrated experience leading strategic planning, directing national analytical initiatives, supervising staff in data-driven decision-making, or influencing public health policy or program outcomes through strategic leadership.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume and any required supporting documentation. I further understand that my resume must not exceed two pages and provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge, skill, and abilities as required in the vacancy announcement, including evidence of the Professional Technical Qualifications (PTQs) listed in the announcement. I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


8.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙