Position Title
Natural Resources Management Specialist
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU 26 13030642 DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions Of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Natural Resource Management Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.




1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Natural Resources Management specialist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 Degree: biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts. for the education part)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Natural Resources Maintenance Specialist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience which includes the following. 1) Perform work to ensure the organization meets compliance for requirements such as the National Environmental Policy Act for its natural resources; 2) assist with providing information or create written plans to accomplish things such as manage, monitor, clean up or provide guidance for natural resources; 3) and perform inspections of lands to ensure compliance or assess damage or monitor repairs or clean-up for damaged property. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the second lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-09).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
 Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. ?I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙