Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER (STATION MANAGER, ANTARCTICA), AD-0340-04
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
OPP-25-12807180 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2025 to Oct 06, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you now a Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you now, or have you been in the last 5 years, a political appointee?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
AD-04 Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience.
 A Ph.D. in a relevant scientific, engineering, or technical field, and at least six (6) or more years of successful research, research administration, and/or managerial experience pertinent to the position after the award of the degree.
 A Master’s degree in a relevant scientific, engineering, or technical field, and at least eight (8) or more years of successful research, research administration, and/or managerial experience pertinent to the position after the award of the degree.
 I do not possess the education and experience listed above.


2.
Provide your degree major or sub-specialty. If you selected "I do not possess the level listed above" in the previous question, type "N/A" and proceed. (Maximum 250 characters)


3.
Please enter the degree level and year in which your qualifying degree was obtained.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙