Position Title
Emergency Response Coordinator
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13060810-26-LT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Additional Applicant Information
1.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-12, GG-11, or N/A for not applicable).


2.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or N/A for not applicable).


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


4.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all information submitted with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (including degrees and accomplishments)? Do you understand that the information you provide may be investigated, and that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring you or for termination after you begin work? Additionally, do you acknowledge that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes, I certify and acknowledge the above statements.
 No, I do not certify or acknowledge the above statements.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent to include performing continuity, and incident response coordination with Federal, State, and regional partners; developing and evaluating responder training emergency operating procedures and regional interface programs; supporting interagency agreements; and planning, conducting, and assessing multi-agency drills and HSEEP-aligned exercises. Specialized experience also includes preparing responder training, policy papers, regulatory analyses, emergency plans, or interagency correspondence; monitoring evolving national preparedness guidance; participating in Operations Center activities; maintaining qualifications for incident response roles; and applying sound judgment in coordinating complex emergency response preparedness issues under time-critical or high-pressure conditions
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙