Position Title
Tax and Trade Specialist
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12899478 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
 Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
 Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the GS14: Specialized experience is defined as one year of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent, that is directly related to the position listed above and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes:

- Conducting regulatory projects or enforcement efforts in alcohol beverage regulatory program areas; AND
- Resolving alcohol regulatory program issues; AND
- Leading task forces or working groups on significant issues; AND
- Developing or coordinating policy and regulatory decisions.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


1a.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


2.
Which of the following most accurately reflects your level of experience related to alcohol beverage regulatory programs/projects?
 I have been a project manager with responsibility for carrying out one or more long-term enforcement efforts or regulatory projects. Projects/efforts were multi-faceted and involved varied workload and critical deadlines.
 I have been a team leader with responsibility for carrying out one or more enforcement efforts or regulatory projects. Projects/efforts were multi-faceted and involved varied workload and critical deadlines.
 I have been a team member assigned to carry out components of enforcement activities or a regulatory project.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


2a.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


3.
Choose the one response that best describes your highest level of experience applying policies and procedures pertaining to the enforcement of alcohol beverage advertising laws and regulations.
 I have experience researching and analyzing regulations, policies, and program requirements in order to provide authoritative guidance, generate reports and other written materials.
 I have researched rules and regulations in order to provide authoritative guidance and respond to inquiries on Federal program requirements.
 I have had experience researching internal handbooks, manuals, and other easily accessible guidance to provide general information on the organization's program requirements to co-workers and the public.
 I have no experience in performing this task.


4.
Choose the one statement that describes your experience formulating agency-level compliance or enforcement efforts or policies that address industry alcohol beverage issues.
 I have experience with regulatory program areas and enforcement policies and procedures by performing studies or investigations and/or directing and coordinating working groups on significant issues pertaining to the regulated industry.
 I have led studies or enforcement efforts of significant issues pertaining to the regulated industry and developed expertise in the areas of alcohol beverage regulations.
 I have participated as a specialist, investigator, or team member in studies or investigations of compliance issues that required me to analyze and evaluate problems and make recommendations.
 I have interpreted and applied agency policies and guides, assisting in the development of agency orders, directives, public guidance or policies.
 None of the above.


5.
Select the statement(s) that describe your experience in performing analytical and evaluative studies or projects as part of enforcement efforts or regulatory initiatives.
 A. I have conducted research involving a variety of program areas using laws, regulations, and directives.
 B. I have applied qualitative and quantitative methods and other statistical approaches and techniques to perform studies.
 C. I have conducted interviews to obtain information for a regulatory project or enforcement effort.
 D. None of the above.


6.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience researching, analyzing, and evaluating a broad range of materials including laws, regulations, rulings, statistical data, and technical reports in order to complete studies, conduct enforcement efforts, and formulate program policy.
 A. I have planned, developed, and coordinated operations, programs, and initiatives pertaining to the alcohol industries.
 B. I have planned and directed studies and surveys.
 C. I have developed measurement criteria to assess the effectiveness of teams’ activities or program goals.
 D. I have coordinated activities with other divisions, agencies or organizations.
 E. I have conducted, overseen, or coordinated the case processing of multi-state or national inspections and/or investigations pertaining to the alcohol industries.
 F. I have participated in programs and projects involving studies of processes, problems, and initiatives relating to regulatory program areas involving Federal, State, local and/or international enforcement and regulatory agencies and organizations.
 G. I have participated on task forces and working groups that cross multi-functional lines within a Bureau, require participation of one or more Directorates, and may involve other Federal, state, local or international authorities.
 H. I have developed and coordinated policy, regulatory decisions, or adverse actions based on review and discussion with management officials in an agency and others, which significantly impact the alcohol industries and the public.
 I. I have analyzed program comments provided by an array of sources (e.g. industry representatives, the public, field personnel, or other Federal, State and foreign government agencies/organizations) to develop program improvements.
 J. I have reviewed and evaluated violations in reports of investigations/inspections for appropriate administrative, civil, or criminal action to be taken.
 K. I have participated in plans and analysis of the organization’s budget formulation and execution process.
 L. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience leading a regulatory program.
 A. I have performed in-depth studies and recommended basic changes and/or focus of the regulatory programs and their management.
 B. I have reviewed rulings, letters, memoranda, and forms associated with a program area to ensure consistency with policy and regulatory decisions.
 C. I have led, directed and motivated employees toward successful and timely completion of assignments related to regulatory program areas.
 D. I have conducted regulatory projects or enforcement efforts.
 E. I have reviewed, evaluated, and recommended improvements to major regulatory programs and mission areas.
 F. I have directed and coordinated task forces or working groups on significant regulatory program issues that have an effect on national programs.
 G. I have provided professional leadership and guidance in extending, improving, and monitoring existing strategies and programs.
 H. I have devised, developed, and implemented innovative changes and long-term improvements.
 I. I have developed program and project objectives, goals, resource requirements, and milestones for all aspects of an alcohol beverage regulatory program area.
 J. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


8.
Choose the statement(s) that describes your experience formulating agency-level policies that implement laws, regulations, and administrative policies.
 A. I have developed and coordinated agency orders, directives, or policies that required interpretation of laws, regulations, and administrative policies.
 B. I have participated as a specialist or team member in the development of agency orders, directives, or policies.
 C. I have participated as a specialist or team member in the development of how-to or other procedural desk guides for agency or bureau-level use.
 D. I have interpreted and applied agency policies and guides in the development of agency orders, directives, or policies.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience communicating in writing in order to prepare policy papers and other materials.
 I have experience writing a variety of comprehensive material for a diverse audience with a broad distribution level.
 I have experience writing a variety of material covering various issues for a more focused and streamlined audience such as supervisors or mid-level management.
 I have experience writing materials for narrowly prescribed audiences about factual matters.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks


10.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience in communicating in writing procedures, policies, correspondence and other materials.
 A. I have developed operating instructions and internal directives for an investigative organization.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals.
 C. I have provided reviews and comments on changes in regulations, procedures, industry circulars, newsletter articles or policy statements.
 D. I have written technical material targeted for the alcohol or tobacco industries.
 E. I have written detailed narrative reports, including inspection or regulations reports.
 F. I have written position papers on new or revised regulations.
 G. I have answered congressional correspondence on technical information.
 H. I have written correspondence to industry members on industry-related information.
 I. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Choose one statement that best describes your experience in written communication.
 I have provided input on a variety of reports, analyses, position papers, briefing papers, directives, policy statements, budget proposals, etc. for high-level management (division level and higher) regarding an array of difficult and/or sensitive matters.
 I have prepared a variety of memoranda and documents to members of a regulated industry, and to the public on an array of difficult and/or sensitive matters.
 I have prepared a variety of reports, analyses, position papers, briefing papers, directives, policy statements, budget proposals, etc. for high-level management (division level and higher) regarding an array of difficult and/or sensitive matters. This would have included responses to inquiries from Congress and Federal or State agencies.
 I have prepared and/or provided input on correspondence and documents to members of a regulated industry, and to the general public on issues of importance, but not critically sensitive to my organization’s mission.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


12.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in communicating in writing in order to prepare policy papers and other materials.
 I have experience writing a variety of material for a very diverse audience with a broad distribution level.
 I have experience writing a variety of material covering various issues for a more focused and streamlined audience such as supervisors or mid-level management.
 I have experience writing materials for narrowly prescribed audiences about factual matters.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


13.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience communicating in person in order to advise management; direct and coordinate task forces; defend policies; make presentations to high-level management officials, industry representatives, etc.; and act as a liaison to representatives from other agencies and organizations.
 A. I confer either in person or by telephone with branch or office chiefs and/or division directors of a bureau; agency, Federal, state, local and international taxing and enforcement authorities; Congressional representatives; or representatives of foreign governments.
 B. I communicate with all levels of management for the purposes of giving, soliciting, or exchanging information; resolving problems on program issues; or providing services.
 C. I deal with Bureau officials and staff of the department and other Federal, state, and international agencies/organizations to promote acceptance of substantive laws, regulations, decisions, rulings, policies, or procedures.
 D. I negotiate with others to attempt to achieve agreement on technical points, methods, or policies that conflict.
 E. I attempt to acquire a common understanding of the issues and a satisfactory solution either by compromising or by developing alternatives.
 F. I provide technical advice to Federal, state or local government agencies, such as Main Treasury, IRS, or US Customs.
 G. None of the above.


14.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience in communicating in writing and orally to provide guidance/training to other TTB employees as well as, industry member on regulations, procedures, policies, correspondence, public guidance, and other materials.
 A. I have developed training aids and presentations for internal and external audiences.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, reports, and/or articles for briefs and proposals.
 C. I have given presentations and briefings to a broad audience to articulate expectations of a TTB regulated program.
 D. I have provided oral instruction to internal TTB personnel on at least one TTB regulated program.
 E. I have written position papers on new or revised policies.
 F. I have served in a Customer Service capacity to provide expert technical advice to industry, representatives and other governmental offices.
 G. I have experience with the TTB regulated program regulations, policies and procedures and can educate other employees to carry out the Bureaus mission.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


15.
I have written position papers articulating an offices position on a controversial topic.
 Yes
 No


15a.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙