Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical) HBPC
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12993386-26-AJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Dietitian (Clinical) position at the Tampa VA. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you qualify for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements for the position of Dietitian.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a U.S. Citizen or Naturalized Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
REGISTRATION/CERTIFICATION: Candidates must be registered with the Commission on Dietetic Registration CDR.

All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Note: Applicants who hold the RDN credential have met the education requirement (e.g., bachelor's degree or higher) of CDR, as such this occupation is considered professional and scientific with a positive education requirement and the procedures in Part I, Chapter 4 of this Handbook will be followed when applying Veteran's preference.

Please select the statement that best describes how you meet the registration/certification requirement.
 Yes, I hold a RDN Credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, therefore I meet the education requirement of a bachelors degree or higher.
 I am a non-CDR registered applicant, but I meet the minimum qualification requirements. I have earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent and completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. I am pending CDR registration and applying for consideration at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level and I am willing to accept a temporary appointment.
 I meet the grandfathering provisions and have protected status.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Determination: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-07

Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

OR,

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college. (Transcripts Required)


 I possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-07
 I have a master’s degree from a regionally accredited university or college
 I do not possess the experience, education, and/or KSA requirement described above.


6.
GS-09 Dietitian (Clinical) (Developmental) - Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the licensure and experience for the GS-9 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?

- Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
- Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
- Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
- Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
- Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
- Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
- Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.
 At least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7).
 Master’s degree from a regionally accredited university or college in the field of dietetics or closely related field.
 None of the above.


7.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11.

Experience. Do you possess at least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade.


 I have successfully completed at least 1 year of experience as a registered dietitian equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09.
 I do not possess the experience and/or KSA requirement described above.


8.
GS- 11 Dietitian (Clinical) (Developmental) - Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the licensure and experience for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
 

- Skill in delivering patient care using the Nutrition Care Process (NCP) (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring, and evaluation).
- Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
- Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
- Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
- Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
- Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT:
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes
 No


Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed
Job title
Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status
(include hours worked per week)
Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree
Current  or former VA Employees must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙