Position Title
Management & Program Analyst (Change Management)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-13004043-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Baltimore, MD
 B. Buffalo, NY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


Time-in-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-09 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


1.
GS-11: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I do not meet the requirement and cannot receive any further consideration.


2.
GS-12: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I do not meet the requirement and cannot receive any further consideration


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. 

MINIMUM QUALIFICATION: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for this vacancy. If qualifying based on education, submission of transcripts is required (unofficial transcripts are acceptable.)     NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


3.
GS-11 Minimum Qualifications: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0343-11 Management and Program Analyst position. Specialized Experience is defined as participating in projects, achieving change, and interpreting VA rules and regulations. This includes basic qualitative and quantitative techniques to analyze, evaluate, and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of organizational operations. Specialized experience also includes skill in applying communication techniques sufficient to present plans and proposals convincingly.

Or  Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.M., that is related. Such education demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I do not have the experience or education described in either "A" or "B"


4.
GS-12 Minimum Qualifications: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-12 Management and Program Analyst (Change Management position. NOTE: Specialized Experience is defined as experience in at least two of the following areas: diagnosing problems within the organization and what drives these issues; building working relationships with all levels of the organization; developing, implementing, and articulating the mission vision and goals of the organization; developing and/or assisting in the design of business processes, systems, technology, and job roles; implementing plans and means to achieve these goals as well as providing training and education on new organization initiatives. This includes basic qualitative and quantitative techniques to analyze, evaluate, and measure the effectiveness and efficiency of organizational operations. Specialized experience also includes skill in applying communication techniques sufficient to present plans and proposals convincingly.


.GS-12: No education substitution at the GS-12 grade level.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above.
 I do not have the experience.


Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙