Position Title
Supervisory General Engineer
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POSM-26-13065569-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


8.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory General Engineer position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in engineering. The curriculum for this degree must have been gained through a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a) statics, dynamics; b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; d) thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and g) any other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science of physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by professional registration or licensure. (This includes current registration as an Engineering Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by and State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in response A above.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least one year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-II or GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Directing and providing technical advice and guidance to engineering professionals; monitoring complex engineering processes; providing oversight to engineering personnel performing engineering process reviews, product examinations, and production contract surveillance; planning and managing team activities and providing leadership to functional field contract management teams; formulating decisions that affect cost, schedule, and performance for the timely delivery of contractor systems to major Government buying commands.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
How do you most effectively motivate a team facing competing priorities and high workload?

 Set clear priorities, explain mission impact, and provide support/resources.
 Escalate all issues to senior leadership.
 Allow the team to self-manage without direction.
 Tell the team to push through without additional guidance.


4.
Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?
 Maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 Providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 Coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 Not communicating with appropriate executives and partners to ensure policy and procedures are communicated
 Assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts a criteria.


5.
Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial.
 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I do not adapt my communication style to the audience, nor do I maintain positive relationships with external stakeholders. I only communicate with internal stakeholders.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.


6.
How should a supervisor align team performance objectives with evolving agency priorities?

 Maintain prior goals to ensure stability.
 Adjust goals informally without documentation.
 Communicate revised priorities, update performance plans, and monitor progress.
 Wait for annual appraisal cycle.


7.
A team member repeatedly misses deadlines. What is the appropriate next step?

 Wait until formal discipline is required.
 Reassign all work permanently without addressing the cause.
 Ignore the issue and hope performance improves.
 Conduct a documented performance discussion with clear expectations.


8.
A project is behind schedule. What demonstrates accountability?

 Provide leadership an accurate status and recovery plan.
 Assign blame externally.
 Direct overtime without explanation.
 Delay reporting to leadership until impacts become unavoidable.


9.
How should supervisors ensure accountability for critical work?

 Assume experienced staff will self-manage without oversight.
 Rely primarily on verbal confirmation.
 Establish clear ownership, implement review processes and verify completion.
 Only review after problems occur.


10.
When managing limited resources across competing mission requirements, what is the most appropriate supervisory action?

 Distribute resources evenly regardless of priority.
 Prioritize based on mission risk and documented objectives.
 Defer decisions to higher headquarters.
 Address issues only when shortages occur.


11.
A major deliverable from your team was submitted late. Leadership asks what happened. What is the best response?

 Blame the team and state that the delay was outside your control.
 Acknowledge your role, describe immediate corrective steps, and provide context.
 Explain the factors that caused the delay and identify who was responsible.
 Take full ownership as the supervisor, present root-cause findings, outline corrective actions, and describe how you will prevent recurrence.


12.
Your team must adopt a new technology, but several employees lack the necessary skills. How do you proceed?
 Share online resources and hope they review them.
 Conduct a skills assessment, create a structured training plan, provide hands-on practice, track progress, and adjust support as needed.
 Provide hands-on practice opportunities and monitor progress.
 Expect them to learn it on their own time.
 Arrange training sessions and encourage participation.


13.
What is the most appropriate way to support the development, growth and fairness of individual team members and subordinates?

 Keep them in the same role to maintain stability.
 Limit additional responsibility.
 Use them only to train others.
 Provide equitable access to development opportunities based on documented performance, competencies, and organizational needs.


14.
What best promotes continuous development in the workforce?

 Focus only on immediate operational tasks.
 Leave development optional.
 Provide structured learning and time to apply new skills.
 Discourage experimentation.


15.
A recurring problem persists. What should the supervisor do?
 Continue applying short term fixes to keep operations moving.
 Escalate the issue or reassign ownership without analysis.
 Address only the immediate incident and move on.
 Conduct a structured root-cause analysis and implement preventive actions.


16.
You must make a decision with limited information. What is the best approach?

 Use the best available data, evaluate risks, and choose the safest viable option while remaining ready to adjust.
 Make a decision primarily based on past experience or intuition.
 Seek consensus and delay the decision until more certainty is available.
 Postpone the decision until all information is available.


17.
Your team struggles to solve issues independently and frequently escalates minor problems. What is the most effective problem-solving method that you should use?
 Build a problem-solving development program, provide coaching, create practice scenarios, reinforce critical thinking, and empower the team to resolve issues independently.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
 Handle all problems yourself to ensure they’re done correctly.
 Encourage the team to try harder before escalating.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.


18.
A policy change creates operational ambiguity for your team. What is the most effective response?
 Continue current practice until directed otherwise.
 Seek clarification, assess operational impact, and provide interim guidance.
 Pause operations.
 Let each team member interpret independently


19.
After a major conflict is resolved, what actions help rebuild long term trust and team cohesion?
 Reinforce shared goals and team identity.
 Conduct follow up check ins to ensure issues remain resolved.
 Avoid discussing the conflict again to prevent reopening wounds.
 Recognize positive collaboration behaviors as they emerge.


20.
How should supervisors manage technical disagreements?

 Minimize communication to avoid friction.
 Encourage open discussion and define escalation paths.
 Avoid direct involvement unless the issue escalates.
 Let the loudest voice decide


21.
If two employees are upset because they believe workload assignments are unfair. What would your response be to these employees?
 Meet with both employees, discuss workload criteria, and adjust assignments transparently.
 Review workload data, involve employees in discussing expectations, adjust assignments, and implement a clear, equitable workload distribution process.
 Tell them, “That’s just how it is” and move on.
 Explain that you’ll try to balance things better next time.


22.
Two high-performing employees have ongoing interpersonal tension affecting productivity. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?

 Separate assignments permanently.
 Address concerns individually and facilitate a mediated discussion.
 Ignore because performance is still acceptable.
 Issue a general reminder about professionalism.


23.
A critical contract begins to fall behind schedule due to contractor performance issues. What is the first action to take?

 Recommend termination of the contract immediately.
 Document all performance deficiencies against the contract requirements.
 Recommend withhold all payments to the contractor.
 Issue a Corrective Action Request (CAR) detailing the specific failures and providing a reasonable time to remedy.
 Complain to other engineers about the contractor's work.


24.
A contractor submits an Engineering Change Proposal (ECP) to DCMA for concurrence of classification, but on this contract, the Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO) has withheld ECP concurrence authority from DCMA, pursuant to Section 42.302 (a)(46) of the FAR. What is the appropriate action?

 Consult with the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) to confirm the Government Program office will execute configuration concurrence authority
 Process the ECP, and notify the ACO, since DCMA processes most ECPs from this contractor.
 Contact the PCO and inquire about the delegation being withheld.
 Call the contractor and verbally approve the ECP.
 Ignore the ECP and wait for the contractor to inquire.


25.
What is DCMA Engineering's role with respect to Configuration Change Management (CCM) documents (RFV/ECP) during contract execution?

 Forward to the buying activity for action.
 Ensure they are adequately supported technically, appropriately classified, and processed in accordance with the contract requirements and DCMA policy.
 Logged in the CMO log.
 Captured in the PDREP Surveillance Plan and actions summarized in a Surveillance Record.
 Verify that the PCO has not withheld FAR 42.302(a) authority.


26.
How should a contractor's performance be evaluated during engineering surveillance?

 Verify that all contract clauses are correct
 Analyze contractor?s past performance for presence of open CARs.
 Assess contractor?s compliance with contractual terms for schedule, cost and technical performance.
 Assess if proper training and certification is documented.
 Verify that Inspection and Acceptance is at Origin/Source.


27.
When briefing senior leadership on a complex engineering project's status, what is the most important element to include?

 A complete, unabridged history of the project from inception. (
 A highly technical deep-dive into every engineering challenge encountered.
 A clear, concise summary of the project's status, risks, and required decisions, tailored to the audience.
 A list of all personnel currently working on the project.
 A detailed breakdown of every dollar spent to date.


28.
An email must be sent to a diverse group of stakeholders, including technical engineers and non-technical contracting managers. How should the message be structured?

 Write the email using highly technical jargon to demonstrate expertise.
 Create two separate emails, one for each group.
 Begin with a clear, executive summary in plain language, followed by detailed technical sections for those who need them.
 Send a very brief email with a link to a dense, 50-page technical report.
 Use only acronyms to keep the email short.


29.
During a contentious project meeting, a stakeholder voices strong opposition to a proposed course of action. What is the best immediate response?

 Argue with the stakeholder to prove the opposition is wrong.
 Ignore the comment and move to the next agenda item.
 Actively listen to the concerns, ask clarifying questions, and validate the stakeholder's perspective before explaining the rationale.
 Table the discussion for a later date without acknowledging the concern.
 State that the decision is final and not open for discussion.


30.
What is the most critical component of an official technical report?

 Using complex vocabulary to impress the reader.
 Ensuring the document is visually appealing with many graphics.
 The accuracy of the data, the clarity of the findings, and the traceability of the conclusions.
 The length of the report, with longer being better.
 A strong, opinionated conclusion unsupported by the data.


31.
An employee's performance is consistently below standards. What is the first step a supervisor should take?

 Immediately initiate a formal removal action.
 Lower the employee's performance standards to something more achievable.
 Conduct a counseling session to discuss specific performance deficiencies, clarify expectations, and offer support.
 Assign the employee's work to other team members.
 Wait until the annual performance review to document the issues.


32.
How should a supervisor best use an employee performance plan?

 As a tool to be completed only at the end of the rating cycle.
 As a collaborative document to set clear expectations and provide ongoing feedback throughout the year.
 As a list of tasks to be completed by the employee.
 As a way to document only poor performance for future action.
 As a formality required by human resources with little real-world application.


33.
What is the most effective way to recognize a high-performing employee?

 Give the employee more work than anyone else.
 Provide a generic, verbal "good job" at the end of the year.
 Offer a timely, specific, and meaningful recognition that is linked to the actual achievement.
 Assume the employee knows the work is good and provide no feedback.
 Promise a future promotion that is not guaranteed.


34.
An employee challenges a performance rating. What is the supervisor's responsibility?

 Refuse to discuss the rating with the employee.
 Tell the employee the rating is final and cannot be changed.
 Meet with the employee to provide specific, documented examples that support the given rating.
 Immediately change the rating to a higher one to avoid conflict.
 Direct the employee to speak with human resources without any discussion.


35.
When developing interview questions for a new position, what is the most important consideration?

 Asking questions that are difficult to answer to test the candidate's intelligence.
 Creating questions that directly relate to the key competencies and duties described in the position description.
 Using the same set of generic questions for every position.
 Asking personal questions to see if the candidate is a good cultural fit.
 Focusing on questions about the candidate's previous salary.


36.
A supervisor becomes aware of a potential conflict between two team members. What is the appropriate initial action?

 Let the employees work it out on their own.
 Take one employee's side immediately.
 Meet with the employees separately to understand each perspective before facilitating a joint discussion.
 Report the employees to human resources without speaking to them first.
 Reorganize the team to separate the two employees permanently.


37.
What is the primary purpose of progressive discipline?

 To move as quickly as possible toward employee removal.
 To punish the employee for misconduct.
 To correct improper conduct and performance, and rehabilitate the employee to be a productive member of the team.
 To create a detailed paper trail for legal purposes.
 To make an example of an employee to scare others.


38.
A request for a reasonable accommodation is received from an employee with a disability. What is the supervisor's role?

 Deny the request if it seems inconvenient.
 Approve any and all requests without question.
 Engage in the interactive process with the employee and human resources to identify an effective accommodation.
 Inform the employee that providing medical documentation is not necessary.
 Make a determination on the request without consulting human resources.


39.
A team project deliverable is completed and meets the minimum specifications but is of poor quality. What should a supervisor do?

 Accept the deliverable to keep the project on schedule.
 Reject the deliverable and demand a rework to meet the established quality standards, even if it impacts the schedule.
 Personally correct the quality issues to save time.
 Complain about the quality but take no other action.
 Lower the quality standard for all future deliverables.


40.
What is the best method for ensuring quality is integrated into a project from the beginning?

 Plan for a single, large quality inspection just before the project deadline.
 Make quality the sole responsibility of a single person on the team.
 Develop a clear Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) with defined metrics and perform regular checks throughout the project lifecycle.
 Hope that the contractor will deliver a quality product.
 Rely on the final user to identify any quality defects.


41.
What does a root cause analysis in quality management seek to identify?

 The person responsible for the quality failure.
 The most recent symptom of a quality problem.
 The fundamental, underlying reason for a defect or problem to prevent its recurrence.
 A quick fix to get the project moving again.
 The budget impact of the quality failure.


42.
How is a Corrective Action Request (CAR) best utilized in a quality system?

 As a punitive tool against the contractor who made the error.
 As a document to be filed away with no further action.
 As a mechanism to formally document a deviation and track the corrective and preventive actions taken.
 As an informal note to the contractor about a minor issue.
 As the basis for stopping all work on the project.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙