Position Title
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12554577-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am a current military or prior member eligible to become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience AND I am eligible and willing to become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience BUT I am in and ineligible and unwilling to become a Texas Air National Guard member.


2.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Traffic Management Specialist, GS-2130-09 position.

 I possess 1-year specialized experience, education, or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) involving the movement of freight or passengers and determining transportation and operating costs. AND Experience participating in the direction and coordination of traffic management functions. AND Experience interpreting and providing routine advice on carrier tariffs and related routing guides. AND Interpreting regulations/requirements and developing local policies to implement changes effectively. AND Experience applying applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations concerning transportation and traffic procedures. Experience preparing reports and recommendations involving appeals, special permits, adjustments in rates and charges. AND Experience which involved negotiations with carriers on individual shipments or traffic movement. AND Experience in making effective presentations both orally and in writing.
 I have a Master’s Degree or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a major directly related to the position of a Human Resources Specialist. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I have a combination of the experience and education listed above. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


3.
Are you an E-3 (A1C) not to exceed E-5 (SSgt)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the rank of E-3 (A1C) not to exceed E-5 (SSgt).
 I am a E-3 (A1C) not to exceed E-5 (SSgt)
 No, I am not one of these ranks, BUT I am willing and eligible to become a Texas Air National Guard member in the following ranks E-3 (A1C) not to exceed E-5 (SSgt).
 No, I am not one of these ranks AND I am unwilling and ineligible to become a Texas National Guard member in the following ranks E-3 (A1C) not to exceed E-5 (SSgt).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

AFSC: 2T071
 Yes
 No


4a.
Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance, or are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret security clearance within the first year of employment?

 Yes
 No


6.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙