Position Title
Supervisory Legal Admin Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
345-26-KDB-13002949-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and  Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, Non-award / Non General Pay Adjustment SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit myCTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


VBA Non-Competitive Consideration - If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST answer the below questions and submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


3.
What is your current grade?


4.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


TIME IN GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


5.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-12 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor b applies to me.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


6.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade level, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12. Specialized Experience is defined as comprehensive knowledge of veteran benefit programs or VBA business lines and laws affecting veterans' compensation and pension benefits to provide guidance and direction on claims and appeals processing. Supervised, managed, or served as a project lead to accomplish performance and project goals; possesses knowledge of employee relations (e.g., performance or conduct based actions) and/or labor relations (e.g., grievance process or negotiations) practices.

Based on the selections below, please choose the answer that best describes how you meet specialized experience at the GS-13 level:
 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent.
 I do not have the specialized experience listed in the vacancy announcement.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate 
attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their 
accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false
statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.
1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be
investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙