Position Title
IT Specialist (DATAMGT)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-26-12974397-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. District of Columbia, DC
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Kansas City, KS
 G. Boston, MA
 H. New York, NY
 I. Philadelphia, PA
 J. Dallas County, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each task in the following groups, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one letter for each item. Failure to support your answers to this questionnaire in your resume may result in a loss of consideration.


1.
Do you have the IT related experience demonstrating each of the following competencies listed below:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. NOTE: Your resume must support your response to this question. Failure to provide sufficient evidence of the required competencies in your resume may result in an ineligible rating.
 Yes, my resume demonstrates I possess the required competencies for this position.
 No, I do not have the experience described above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the Information Technology Specialist (Data Management) GS-2210-12 position. NOTE: Your resume must support your response to this question. Failure to provide sufficient evidence of the required competencies in your resume may result in an ineligible rating.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which provided the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate: (1) analyzing and interpreting healthcare data to identify trends, anomalies, or findings in support of program objectives; and (2) using Structured Query Language (SQL) to query, manipulate, and optimize data within large-scale databases; and (3) utilizing open-source tools, including Python and Git, to develop, manage, and version control data solutions; and (4) generating data products and reports for internal customers.
 No, I do not have the experience described above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the Information Technology Specialist (Data Management) GS-2210-13 position. NOTE: Your resume must support your response to this question. Failure to provide sufficient evidence of the required competencies in your resume may result in an ineligible rating.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which provided the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate: (1) analyzing and interpreting healthcare data to identify trends, anomalies, or findings in support of program objectives; (2) designing, optimizing, and executing advanced Structured Query Language (SQL) queries for large-scale, relational, or distributed database environments; (3) utilizing open-source tools, including Python and Git, to develop, manage, and version control data solutions; and (4) producing high-quality data products, dashboards, and technical reports for internal and external customers.
 I do not have the experience described above in option A.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information stated above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙