Position Title
Field Unit Local Hiring Authority (FUL) Maintenance Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHN-26-13055353-FUL-BB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 100 miles from 2282 Resource Blvd, Moab, UT 84532.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Maintenance Worker position. You must show that you meet the experience described below. Make sure your resume supports your response. (SCREEN OUT) MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION OR YOUR SCORE MAY BE LOWERED.

 Perform simple and routine work involved in the maintenance and repair of grounds, exterior structures, buildings, and related utilities, requiring the use of a variety of trade practices associated with occupations such as carpentry, masonry, plumbing, electrical, cement work, painting, and other related trades. I have used simple measures and hand tools to replace broken planks on picnic tables; broken windows using precut stock; minor adjustments or replaces hinges, latches, and catches. I have used a brush and roller on projects where appearances are not critical such as staining picnic tables and trash barrels. I have tightened or replaced plumbing fittings and fixtures which do not require custom fitting or solder joints; replaced faucet washers; unplugged drains using a plunger; replaced liquid petroleum gas bottles. I have performed routine maintenance on campground sites and trails using hand tools to re-grade and reset barriers to restore areas to original appearances. I have operated a light truck to pick up supplies and to transport materials to and from work sites. I have cleaned and serviced chemical toilets, restrooms, and other campground or visitor facilities. I have operated a forklift to load and unload supplies and light equipment not requiring special rigging. My work has been under close supervision and I referred unusual problems to the supervisor or a higher graded employee.
 Perform simple and routine work involved in the maintenance and repair of grounds, exterior structures, buildings, and related utilities, requiring the use of a variety of trade practices associated with occupations such as carpentry, masonry, plumbing, electrical, cement work, painting, and other related trades. I have used simple measures and hand tools to replace broken planks on picnic tables; broken windows using precut stock; minor adjustments or replaces hinges, latches, and catches. I have used a brush and roller on projects where appearances are not critical such as staining picnic tables and trash barrels. I have tightened or replaced plumbing fittings and fixtures which do not require custom fitting or solder joints; replaced faucet washers; unplugged drains using a plunger; replaced liquid petroleum gas bottles. I have performed routine maintenance on campground sites and trails using hand tools to re-grade and reset barriers to restore areas to original appearances. I have operated a light truck to pick up supplies and to transport materials to and from work sites. I have cleaned and serviced chemical toilets, restrooms, and other campground or visitor facilities. My work has been under close supervision and I referred unusual problems to the supervisor or a higher graded employee.
 Perform simple and routine work involved in the maintenance and repair of grounds, exterior structures, buildings, and related utilities, requiring the use of a variety of trade practices associated with occupations such as carpentry, masonry, plumbing, electrical, cement work, painting, and other related trades. I have used simple measures and hand tools to replace broken planks on picnic tables; broken windows using precut stock; minor adjustments or replaces hinges, latches, and catches. I have used a brush and roller on projects where appearances are not critical such as staining picnic tables and trash barrels. I have performed routine maintenance on campground sites and trails using hand tools to re-grade and reset barriers to restore areas to original appearances. I have operated a light truck to pick up supplies and to transport materials to and from work sites. I have cleaned and serviced chemical toilets, restrooms, and other campground or visitor facilities. My work has been under close supervision and I referred unusual problems to the supervisor or a higher graded employee.
 I know little or nothing about maintenance work.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙