Position Title
Executive Director for Contracts and Acquisitions Management
Agency
Department of Education - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
ED-OFO-26-13050298-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have you never held the full performance level of this position?

-OR-

Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you never held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must
reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee (transfer or reinstatement eligible) who holds or has previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) AND
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you currently serving in the Senior Executive Service or a former career SES eligible for reinstatement under 5 CFR 317.702?  Applicants must provide documentation supporting their eligibility (e.g., SF50 showing career SES appointment/status.)

Types of SES Appointments:

Career: An individual appointed through SES merit staffing and certification of his/her executive core qualifications by an OPM administered Qualifications Review Board (QRB) or subsequently reassigned, transferred, or reinstated based on prior QRB certification and career service.
Noncareer and limited appointments: Competitive procedures are not required to make non-career and limited appointments.
Limited Term: An individual appointed under a nonrenewable appointment for a term of 3 years or less to a position of a project nature.
Limited Emergency: An individual appointed under a nonrenewable appointment not to exceed 18 months to meet a bona fide, unanticipated, urgent need.
Noncareer: An individual who is not a career appointee, a limited term appointee, or limited emergency appointee. Agencies may make SES noncareer appointments to general (not career reserve) SES positions.  5 CFR 317

 Yes
 No


Political Appointee
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙