Position Title
Support Services Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
EUR26-055 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Support Service Manager. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Select the option that best describes your qualifying education and/or experience. Administrative experience including an extensive background in budgeting, financial management and planning, payroll, property management, acquisition and contract administration:

 I have at least 3 years in the above.
 I have less than 3 years in the above


2.
Please select the statement that best describes your knowledge of business management principles and practices, personnel management policies and procedures, fiscal resource management and logistical support.

 I have knowledge in this task gained from 3 or more years of experience working in a DoN NAF (FFR, MWR, CYP, NGIS) management position.
 I have knowledge in this task gained from 3 or more years of experience working in a DoD (other than Navy NAF) management position.
 I have knowledge in this task gained from 3 or more years of experience working in a non-DoD management position.
 I have knowledge in this task but less than 3 years of experience working in a management position.


3.
Please select the statement that best describes your general business knowledge of financial planning, accounting, budget, procurement and budgetary methods and processes

 I have knowledge in this task gained from 5 or more years of experience with APF and NAF.
 I have knowledge in this task gained from 5 or more years of experience with APF or NAF.
 I have knowledge in this task gained from 3 to 5 years of experience with APF and/or NAF
 I have knowledge in this task gained from less than 3 years of experience with APF and/or NAF.


4.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience working with a diverse workforce (foreign nationals, APF, NAF, Active Duty, contractors and unions).

 I have 3 or more years of knowledge and experience gained from working in a DoN NAF (FFR, MWR, CYP, NGIS) position.
 I have 3 or more years of knowledge and experience gained from working in a DoD (other than Navy NAF) position.
 I have 3 or more years of knowledge and experience gained from working in a non-DoD position.
 I have training related to working with a diverse workforce (foreign nationals, APF, NAF, Active Duty, contractors and unions) but less than 3 years of experience.
 I do not have training related to working with a diverse workforce (foreign nationals, APF, NAF, Active Duty, contractors and unions)


5.
Please select the statement that best describes your working knowledge of non-appropriated fund personnel policies and procedures.


 

 I have 3 or more years of knowledge and experience gained from working in a DoN NAF (FFR, MWR, CYP, NGIS) position.
 I have 3 or more years of knowledge and experience gained from working in a DoD (other than Navy   NAF) position.
 I have 3 or more years of knowledge and experience gained from working in a DoD or non-DoD position.
 I have less than 3 years of knowledge and experience working with non-appropriated fund personnel policies and procedures.
 I have no knowledge and experience working with non-appropriated fund personnel policies and procedures.


6.
Please select the statement that best describes your ability to provide oversight of NAF/ APF personnel and financial resources. This includes ensuring sound fiscal controls, control of change funds and petty cash, review of Uniform Management and Funding (UFM) eligibility, correction of audit findings, control of fixed asset, resale and warehouse inventories and support of MIC Assessments, Command Evaluations and Review Audits

 I have 3 or more years of experience performing this task gained from working in a DoN NAF (FFR, MWR, CYP, NGIS) position.
 I have 3 or more years of experience performing this task gained from working in a DoD (other than Navy NAF) position.
 I have 3 or more years of experience performing this task gained from working in a non-DoD position.
 I have training related to performing this task but less than 3 years of experience.
 I have no knowledge or experience in providing oversight of NAF/APF personnel and financial resources or the tasks listed.


7.
Please select the statement that best describes your skill in marketing management. This includes supervising, hiring, training, evaluating, coaching, discipline, recognition, EEO, etc.
 I have at least 3 years of experience supervising government employees.
 I have at least 1 year of experience supervising government employees.
 I have at least 1 or more years of general supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of general supervisory experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙