Position Title
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13024335-AR-26-105 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O3?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades O1 - O3.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all of the questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education, or training with developing policies and administering the management of traffic programs, plans and directs traffic operations within the program and performs necessary technical work involved in obtaining economical and efficient transportation of equipment, supplies, and personnel in support of these operations.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-11: Do you possess 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Experience, education, or training performing, administering, or supervising technical and analytical work concerned with planning, development and execution of traffic policies and programs. Experience interpreting applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and regulations concerning transportation and traffic procedures. Knowledge of transportation requirements and systems for specific geographic areas
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience serving as a primary point of contact for complex surface transportation operations, such as military convoys or large commercial fleet movements.


4.
Please detail your experience in planning, validating, and executing comprehensive movement plans for mobilization, deployment, or large-scale exercises.


5.
Describe your background in coordinating multi-modal transportation logistics, specifically involving both commercial transportation support and air mobility operations.


6.
Explain your experience in developing instructional programs and providing technical guidance to subordinate personnel or units regarding logistics and movement execution.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙