Position Title
Front Desk Associate (Pac Beach)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13012014 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in working for Pacific Beach Resort aboard Naval Station Everett. Please answer the following questions to how it relates to your professional experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you available to work weekends, holidays and rotating shifts consisting of other than normal duty hours?
 Yes
 No


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


2.
Do you have experience with personal computers and various software programs?
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


3.
Please explain your experience with hospitality principles, concepts, standards, and regulations.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Travel may be required for this position. Do you possess a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙