Position Title
COUNSEL TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-OIG-ES-26-12976504 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
U.S. Citizens, Nationals or those who owe allegiance to the U.S.
 Yes
 No


3.
Types of SES Appointments:
Career: An individual appointed through SES merit staffing and certification of his/her executive core qualifications by an OPM administered Qualifications Review Board (QRB) or subsequently reassigned, transferred, or reinstated based on prior QRB certification and career service.
Noncareer and limited appointments: Competitive procedures are not required to make non-career and limited appointments.
Limited Term: An individual appointed under a nonrenewable appointment for a term of 3 years or less to a position of a project nature.
Limited Emergency: An individual appointed under a nonrenewable appointment not to exceed 18 months to meet a bona fide, unanticipated, urgent need.
Noncareer: An individual who is not a career appointee, a limited term appointee, or limited emergency appointee. Agencies may make SES noncareer appointments to general (not career reserve) SES positions.  5 CFR 317
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
A pre-employment drug screening is required. Are you will to undergo a drug screen?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙