Position Title
Naval Architect
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12884837-HQ-ADB-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you wish to be considered under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) because you are a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and meet all of the following criteria?
Occupy a position in the same local commuting area of the vacancy, and
Occupy a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent
For more information about ICTAP eligibility, visit The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
My most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If my position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block #34 of your SF-50), I have also included the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
Documentation of my Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
My latest performance rating of record.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis.


4.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held. (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present)


5.
Current Career or Career-Conditional Employees within USCG in the (enter Division/Specific location):

Are you a current, permanent career or career conditional employee in the competitive service within the US Coast Guard in the (enter Division/Specific location)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents at the time of application. A copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 must reflect
-Career or Career Conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in Block 24)
-Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in Block 34), AND
-That you currently work within USCG in the (enter Division/Specific location).
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee who meets one of the following criteria?

I have held, or currently hold either:
A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
OR
An appointment with an excepted service agency but can be hired into the competitive service because I meet the criteria of an Interchange Agreement, with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised. Additional information about current Interchange Agreements can be found here.
Note: If your position referenced above is not on the GS pay scale, your pay must be at or above the representative rate (step 04) of the full performance level of this position.

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:
Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
If your position occupied is "2 - Excepted Service" (block 34 of your SF-50), it is recommended that you also include the initial SF-50, or other official Notification of Personnel Action, for that appointment.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙