Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12969402-AR-26-180 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with TNARNG membership within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).



 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and can use common tools and equipment in the line of work?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least 18 months of experience or training leading to an extensive knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex interconnecting systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify interconnected complex systems on a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Extensive knowledge of state of the art electrical, electronic, complex hydraulic, pneumatic, and other major non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of major mechanical systems. Extensive knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Skill and knowledge to develop or improvise methods, alter parts, and make repairs in the absence of technical guidelines (such as modifying parts to fit and mesh into systems for which the parts were not designed); improvise modifications to equipment to correct recurring malfunctions; and design modifications to meet special test requirements or other special needs?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience performing maintenance, troubleshooting, and major repair on heavy-duty mobile equipment, combat, tactical, and automotive vehicles?


3a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


4.
Do you have experience removing and disassembling engines and complex major assemblies, sub-assemblies, components, and fuel, hydraulic, and oil pressure systems?


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


5.
Do you have experience performing operational inspections to ensure vehicles and equipment are properly serviced, including brake adjustments, replacing hydraulic fluids, greasing, cleaning, etc., and performs other preventive maintenance operations as required?


5a.
Please explain your experiences with the above question.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙