Position Title
Deputy Director for Tax Audit Division
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12942785 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
 Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
 Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
You must meet the minimum basic educational and/or work experience requirements for professional auditing positions in the federal government. This includes:
Degree: accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law; OR
Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.


1.
Choose one answer that best describes your educational/work experience. (Attach a copy of transcript(s) or a list of courses designating semester or quarter hours earned to ensure proper credit).
 I meet the requirements as provided under part A.
 I meet the requirements as provided under part B.
 I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and work experience under any of the choices above.


For the GS-15, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
Leading and directing tax audit teams to complete assignments, ensuring compliance with applicable auditing standards and internal policies; AND
Delivering audit results to senior leadership through clear and effective written and oral communication; AND
Recommending or making changes to improve internal programs or activities.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


3.
Do you have experience in conducting audits for any of the TTB regulated industries?
 A. I have conducted a tobacco manufacturer audit.
 B. I have conducted a distilled spirits plant audit.
 C. I have conducted a brewery audit.
 D. I have conducted a winery audit.
 E. I have conducted a manufacturer of non-beverage product audit.
 F. I have conducted a Firearms and Ammunition Manufacturer audit.
 G. None of the above.


4.
Select all Audit Standards, Industry Circulars/Bulletins, and Federal Laws and Regulations that you have used in audits.
 A. I have used the Government Auditing Standards (Yellow Book).
 B. I have used the Institute of Internal Auditors Statements on Internal Auditing Standards.
 C. I have used the Tax Audit Division (TAD) Audit Manual.
 D. I have used the United States Code Title 26 in conducting audits.
 E. I have used the Federal Alcohol Administration Act in conducting audits.
 F. I have used the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations in conducting audits.
 G. I have used Industry Circulars in conducting audits.
 H. None of the above.


5.
Identify the auditing functions you have performed.
 A. I have assisted in planning, coordinating and conducting audits and reviews of portions of an agency’s financial operations.
 B. I have participated in consolidating findings of financial reviews, identified deficiencies, and monitored the implementations of corrective actions steps to improve deficiencies.
 C. I have provided guidance regarding financial management systems, current accounting/financial management techniques, and improvement to internal control systems.
 D. I have applied accounting/financial management techniques and methods to resolve financial problems.
 E. None of the above.


6.
Choose the example(s) that apply to your experience analyzing data and information when preparing audit reports.
 A. I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared.
 B. I have been the primary author of audit briefings, studies and reports.
 C. I have reviewed audit reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material and clarity.
 D. I have composed explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 E. I have analyzed trends and other information to identify issues, problems, challenges and options.
 F. I have analyzed trends and other information to formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports.
 G. None of the above.


7.
Please select each of the accounting/auditing responsibilities in which you have experience.
 A. I have analyzed, interpreted and processed transactions, adjustments and documents for the administration of various appropriations.
 B. I have worked with appropriations having unique requirements and entries.
 C. I have performed research, analysis, reconciliation and interpretation of asset and liability accounts.
 D. I have identified over or underpayments and potential unauthorized acts or actions.
 E. I have validated the accuracy of the interface data to/from the official accounting system and took appropriate action to correct problems and discrepancies.
 F. None of the above.


8.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in leading analyses of processes to increase program effectiveness.
 A. I have experience in the identification of issues.
 B. I have experience in the development of methods and approaches for gathering data.
 C. I have experience in analytical techniques to review data and processes.
 D. I have experience in the development of recommendations.
 E. I have experience in the implementation and follow through of recommendations.
 F. None of the above.


9.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience managing, directing, or administering a program or program segment.
 A. I have issued technically authoritative interpretations and decisions regarding laws, regulations, and program policies relating to the program.
 B. I have developed and recommended program policies, strategies and goals.
 C. I have set short-range objectives for the accomplishment of the program work.
 D. I have set long-range plans for the program considering the possible changes in program direction and new or emerging laws.
 E. I have developed and approved program procedures and practices.
 F. I have promoted program(s) and provided advice to senior officials.
 G. None of the above.


10.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your program management experience in achieving organizational mission(s).
 A. I have advised, consulted with or negotiated with customers in the delivery of projects or programs.
 B. I have set goals and objectives for accomplishments of programs or projects.
 C. I have planned the resources, delivery schedules, and milestones.
 D. I have monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishment.
 E. I have established and tracked program delivery performance measures.
 F. I have developed annual work plans, objectives, priorities, workloads and schedules for accomplishment of work plans.
 G. None of the above.


11.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in managing, and monitoring a budget for an organization.
 A. I have been responsible for monitoring a budget.
 B. I have compiled information for the development of a budget.
 C. I have managed the budgetary process, including development and execution.
 D. I have created a budget estimate.
 E. I have monitored funding expenditures for accuracy and appropriateness.
 F. None of the above.


12.
Choose the statement(s) that describe communication or briefing skills that you use to support agency goals and the agency leadership.
 A. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 B. I brief managers outside the organization on agency goals and objectives.
 C. I defend agency position with third parties performing oversight review of programs.
 D. I demonstrate ability to foster cooperation and consensus among groups in fostering agency goals.
 E. I demonstrate ability to build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 F. None of the above.


13.
Select all of the supervisory duties you have performed.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I am responsible for the first line supervision of employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees’ work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. None of the above.


14.
Choose the response(s) that best describe your experiences directing and leading a team.
 A. I have experience evaluating, making suggestions and edits, and approving or rejecting work products of team members working on a project or program.
 B. I have developed and nurtured inter-office and intra-office relationships to gain cooperation for successfully managing a project or program.
 C. I have set goals, administered and technically directed the work of a team/group.
 D. I have led meetings or calls related to a project or program which I was a part of.
 E. I have assigned work tasks to individuals or directed the work of team members working on a joint project or program.
 F. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙