Position Title
Government Information Specialist (SENIOR FOIA REVIEWER)
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12926184 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
Implemented processes supporting agency-wide compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act programs; AND
Conducted cradle-to-grave reviews of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act requests; AND
Served as an advisor and technical expert on Federal disclosure requirements.


1.
Do you meet the specialized experience as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you implemented processes supporting agency-wide compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act programs?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please indicate where this experience can be found in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


4.
Have you conducted cradle-to-grave reviews of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act requests?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate where this experience can be found in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


6.
Have you served as an advisor and technical expert on Federal disclosure requirements?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please indicate where this experience can be found in your resume to ensure you receive proper credit.


8.
Which of the following statements describe(s) your experience with reviewing Federal records in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Agency's FOIA implementing instructions? Please select all that apply.
 A. I have experience with reviewing the work of other FOIA analysts, providing release recommendations, and independently making release decisions
 B. I have experience reviewing records that come into the agency and providing final release recommendations
 C. I have experience working with legal and program staff to determine what harm would result from the release of potentially exempt information
 D. I have experience working with other agencies to determine if records can be released
 E. I have experience applying exemption codes to various documents under FOIA review
 F. None of the above


9.
Which of the following statements best describe(s) your experience with applying exemption codes to exempt material in Federal records in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Agency's FOIA implementing instructions? Please select all that apply.
 A. I have experience independently reviewing federal records and applying exemption codes to exempt material
 B. I have experience independently applying exemption codes electronically to exempt material in federal records
 C. I have experience using FOIA application tools to independently review documents and apply exemptions
 D. I have made discretionary release recommendations
 E. I have independently justified the release or withholding of information under the FOIA
 F. None of the above


10.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your knowledge and experience with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Please select all that apply.
 A. I regularly process classified and/or sensitive FOIA requests as a part of my job
 B. I have advised management regarding FOIA matters that may be potentially sensitive to the organization
 C. I have provided guidance and direction regarding FOIA requirements to junior FOIA analysts
 D. I have led training to junior staff and/or program staff on various aspects of FOIA administration
 E. None of the above


11.
Please choose from the following those areas which you have demonstrated experience.
 A. Briefing upper-level management on FOIA/PA issues
 B. Providing FOIA Reports to management and supervision
 C. Briefing senior leadership on FOIA issues
 D. Conducting FOIA training
 E. None of the above


12.
Which of the following responsibilities have you completed in the coordination of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests?
 A. Review, analyze, coordinate, and present solid legal alternatives for FOIA requests on issues not covered by precedent
 B. Review incoming requests and contact the requester when clarification is required
 C. Research request, identify redaction issues, and analyze whether there is any basis to assert an exemption to prevent disclosure
 D. Conduct record searches and determination responsiveness of records
 E. Review and analyze an appeal, research the history of the case and develop a strategy to resolve the appeal
 F. Review and analyze a complaint for a request in litigation, research the history of the case, and coordinate with agency counsel on legal strategy and steps to address the litigation
 G. None of the above


13.
From the list below, choose the statement that best describes your FOIA processing experience.
 I have processed federal records that required redactions of national security, law enforcement sensitive and confidential business information, in classified and unclassified records, that required consultation with qualified subject matter experts and made determinations about discretionary releases where applicable.
 I have processed federal records that required redactions of national security, law enforcement sensitive and confidential business information.
 I have processed federal records that required redactions of national security, law enforcement sensitive and confidential business information that required consultation with qualified subject matter experts.
 None of the above


14.
From the list below choose all the statements that describe your experience with the submitter notice process.
 A. I have reviewed FOIA cases that required that processing of numerous submitter notices in one case.
 B. I have individually determined which records should be processed through the submitter notice process and processed the records.
 C. I have independently reviewed submitter responses to determine if the submitter objections should be affirmed or denied.
 D. I have independently written determination notices on behalf of the agency and affirmed or denied submitter objections.
 E. I have initiated, tracked, and competed the submitter notice process for several complex cases and do this as part of my normal responsibilities.
 F. None of the above


15.
Which of the following describe your levels of experience communicating information in writing? Select all that apply.
 A. I have independently written response letters to requestors
 B. I have independently written referral or consultation letters to other agencies regarding the review of my agency's records
 C. I have independently written final response letters to requestors, referral and consultation letters to other federal agencies, and submitter notices to commercial businesses for trade secret and commercial or financial information
 D. I have independently written submitter notice letters to submitters of business commercial and financial information
 E. I have been acknowledged by my supervisor for my ability to convey my thoughts in writing
 F. None of the above


16.
Which of the following individuals or groups have you had direct contact with on a recurring basis to successfully perform the work managed within a FOIA program?
 A. High-ranking managers, supervisors, and technical staff at agency and staff office organization levels of the department, with agency headquarters administrative support staff, or with comparable personnel in other Federal agencies
 B. Attorneys for requesters
 C. Key staff of public interest groups (usually in formal briefings) with significant political influence or media coverage
 D. Frequent media requesters
 E. Contracting officials and high-level technical staff
 F. Local officers of regional or national trade associations, public action groups, or professional organizations, and/or State and local government managers doing business with the agency
 G. Members of the public
 H. Submitters of commercial and financial information
 I. None of the above


17.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience responding to Freedom of Information Act questions and issues.
 I have processed complex unclassified and classified FOIA/PA requests for the agency
 I have received, documented, tracked questions and complaints, and coordinated responses regarding the application of the Freedom of Information Act at my agency
 I have investigated and responded to complaints regarding incoming requests for records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act
 I have served as an agency-level technical reviewer for Freedom of Information Act issues involving the interpretation of directives or precedents, preparing written assessments and recommendations
 I have responded to queries through reviews and clearance of redactions and served as a technical reviewer for complex cases where generally applicable directives and precedents are available but still required interpretation. I have coordinated responses with agency staff, other agencies, and other requesters such as submitters of records and legal counsel. I have drafted explanations for unusual issues or cases outlining specific requirements for all but the more complex cases that would have required the application of new or unprecedented approaches with significant policy and legal implications
 None of the above


18.
From the descriptions below, please identify the statement that best reflects your highest level of experience negotiating issues.
 I have experience justifying and/or resolving controversial privacy and Freedom of Information Act issues, the resolution of which required agreement on issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems
 I have experience justifying and/or resolving controversial privacy and Freedom of Information Act issues, the resolution of which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus
 I have experience justifying and/or resolving controversial FOIA/PA issues, the resolution of which required analyzing and solving problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues
 I have no experience justifying and/or resolving controversial privacy and Freedom of Information Act issues


19.
From the list below, please indicate your experience in effective oral communication.
 A. I have experience communicating with a variety of individuals explaining procedures, regulations, and policies
 B. I have experience communicating with FOIA requestors regarding status/process of requests
 C. I have experience negotiating with FOIA requestors to narrow the scope of their request
 D. I have experience discussing and defending disclosure determination and the use of exemptions to peers and supervisors
 E. I have experience discussing disclosure determinations with submitters to resolve conflicts concerning proposed releases
 F. None of the above


20.
Which of the following authorities and responsibilities have you carried out in providing technical and administrative advice regarding a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) program?
 A. Evaluating requests for compliance with regulations
 B. Determining office of primary responsibility and responsible official to whom action on request should be assigned
 C. Coordinating special processing requirements with internal and external interested parties
 D. Identifying and responding to issues provided by submitters of records
 E. Developing and delivering FOIA related training to program offices, management, staff, and bureau users
 F. Analyzing effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity specific to Freedom of Information Act programs
 G. I have not carried out these authorities and responsibilities


21.
Choose all of the statements that describe your experience managing, directing and administering a program and/or significant program segment.
 A. I have provided input into technically authoritative interpretations and decisions regarding laws, regulations and program policies relating to the program
 B. I have implemented and ensured compliance with procedures and policies I have implemented and ensured compliance with procedures and policies
 C. I have developed and recommended program policies, strategies and goals
 D. I have set the short-range objectives for the accomplishment of the program work
 E. I have reviewed and made recommendations regarding program procedures and practices
 F. I have provided expert advice to a variety of senior officials
 G. I have reviewed and made recommendations for standard operating procedures
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙