Position Title
Cook
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-26-13001580-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Cook position with the Department of War. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Cook duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks as a Cook. I am skilled in providing food preparation support in a medical facility or a cafeteria setting; preparing large quantities or individual portions of menu items served for meals; utilizing recipes or other instructions to prepare and cook moderately difficult food; preparing menu items for regular and therapeutic diets; cooking raw foods for inclusion in dishes; operating a variety of food preparation and cooking equipment and utensils; following prescribed procedures to operate and clean equipment; following safety and sanitation procedures required for food handling work. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Cook duties. I am skilled in preparing large quantities or individual portions of menu items served for meals; utilizing recipes or other instructions to prepare and cook food; preparing menu items for regular and therapeutic diets; cooking raw foods for inclusion in dishes; operating a variety of food preparation and cooking equipment and utensils; following prescribed procedures to operate and clean equipment; following safety and sanitation procedures required for food handling work. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Cook duties. I am skilled in preparing large quantities of menu items; utilizing recipes or other instructions to prepare and cook food; operating a variety of food preparation and cooking equipment and utensils; following prescribed procedures to operate and clean equipment; following safety and sanitation procedures required for food handling work. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Cook duties or I have received training in cooking simple menu items; operating a variety of food cooking equipment and utensils.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙