Position Title
SECURITY SPECIALIST (LEAD INDUSTRIAL SECURITY OPERATIONS SPECIALIST)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-13052011-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current DCSA federal civilian employee applying for this vacancy?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


8.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have specialized experience sufficient to demonstrate that I have acquired all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-13) in the Federal service and am prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for this GG-14 position includes: Advising Senior Executives and staff on mission planning, organizational improvements, and operations. Supporting senior leader engagements, staff functions, and planning cross-organizational actions Managing large organizational projects, developing senior leader talking points and briefings, reviewing executive material, and tracking quick-turn actions. Coordinating with DCSA, Department of War, and Congressional Staffs to manage assigned tasks and actions. Proactively identifying operational challenges, providing recommendations and/or implementing solutions to resolve
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I am a Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency who resides or is currently employed in the Quantico, VA local commuting area.
 Yes
 No


3.
If yes to the above question, please list your full residential or work address below:


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙