Position Title
Fish Biologist/Statistician (Biology)
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13041040-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. La Jolla, CA
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Silver Spring, MD
 E. Woods Hole, MA
 F. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


3.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0482 - Fish Biology
 B. 1530 - Statistics


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Fish Biology Series, 0482 because I have:

 Degree: major in biological science that included: (a) at least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology; and (2) at least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences in such subjects as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, entomology, parasitology, ecology, cellular biology, genetics, or research in these fields. (Excess course work in aquatic subjects may be used to meet this requirement when appropriate.)
 A combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Fish Biology Series, 0482.


2.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Statistics Series, 1530 because I have:

 Degree: that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing
 A combination of education and experience: courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Statistics Series, 1530.


3.
ZP-3: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Fish Biologist/Statistician (Biology), ZP-0482/1530-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting with analyzing ongoing surveys; and Assisting with coordination of communications and activities with state, federal or non-federal partners.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
ZP-4: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Fish Biologist/Statistician (Biology), ZP-0482/1530-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Coordinating or planning projects based on parameters such as overall objectives, milestones, expected results, and constraints; Managing the collection, evaluation and reporting of marine recreational statistics for internal or external stakeholders; and Developing questionnaires, quality control methods, reporting methods, or outreach and educational activities.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Which federal statute provides the primary authority for the conservation and management of marine fisheries within the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone?

 Endangered Species Act
 National Environmental Policy Act
 Marine Mammal Protection Act
 Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act


2.
Under U.S. federal fisheries management, a fish stock is legally classified as being "overfished" when:

 The rate of fishing mortality (harvest) exceeds the maximum sustainable yield threshold.
 The recreational sector exceeds its allocated Annual Catch Limit (ACL) for the season.
 The population size (biomass) drops below a scientifically determined minimum threshold.
 Catch per unit effort (CPUE) declines for three consecutive years.


3.
The primary objective of fishery-dependent recreational surveys is to:

 Obtain estimates of stock abundance independent of fishing activity.
 Monitor and estimate the catch, effort, and participation of actively fishing anglers.
 Eliminate the need for biological sampling.
 Direct law enforcement to specific fishing sectors.


4.
Which biological structure is most commonly extracted from fish to provide the most accurate estimate of age for stock assessments?

 Scales
 Otoliths
 Fin rays
 Vertebrae


5.
In fisheries science, Catch Per Unit Effort (CPUE) derived from recreational fishing data is generally used as:

 A direct measure of maximum sustainable yield
 A measure of species diversity
 An index of relative stock abundance
 An estimate of total harvest


6.
Recruitment in fisheries stock assessment refers to:

 Adult spawning migration
 Annual commercial landings
 Fish mortality caused by harvest
 The number of fish entering a measurable or fishable population


7.
A "stock" in fisheries science and management is best defined as:

 A group of individuals of the same species that is reproductively or geographically isolated and managed as a unit
 All species of fish living in a specific ocean basin
 The total biomass of fish caught in a given year
 A group of species that share the same trophic level


8.
In recreational intercept surveys, biologists frequently measure the length of landed fish but rarely weigh them in the field. Which mathematical model is subsequently used to convert these length measurements into estimated weights for stock assessments?

 The Von Bertalanffy growth function
 The allometric weight-length relationship (W=aLb)
 The Baranov catch equation
 The logistic growth equation


9.
In recreational fisheries monitoring, the standard method for estimating total catch is:

 Multiplying total estimated fishing effort (trips) by the average catch rate (catch per trip)
 Relying exclusively on self-reported angler logbooks
 Dividing commercial landings by recreational vessel counts
 Utilizing social media


10.
When designing an on-site intercept survey to sample angler catches across a wide geographic coastline, multiple seasons, and different access points (e.g., piers, boat ramps), which sampling design is most statistically appropriate?

 Simple random sampling
 Convenience sampling
 Stratified multistage cluster sampling
 Systematic uniform sampling


11.
Recreational intercept data often contains a high proportion of trips where anglers catch zero fish. Which statistical distribution is most appropriate for modeling these catch rates?

 Normal
 Zero-inflated Poisson or Negative Binomial
 Uniform
 Exponential


12.
What is the primary statistical purpose of conducting on-site angler intercept surveys (e.g., creel surveys) at boat ramps and marinas?

 To estimate the total number of fishing trips taken across an entire state
 To register non-compliant vessels
 To measure commercial bycatch
 To collect accurate catch rates (catch per trip) and biological data (e.g., lengths/weights)


13.
When a long-standing data collection program transitions to a new, improved survey design, what statistical process is typically required to ensure the historical catch time series remains comparable for stock assessments?

 Bootstrapping
 Calibration modeling
 Principal Components Analysis
 Ridge regression


14.
Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) procedures are intended to:

 Increase sample size.
 Improve statistical significance.
 Eliminate uncertainty.
 Improve the accuracy, consistency, and reliability of scientific data.


15.
What is the primary statistical purpose of applying sample weights (or expansion factors) to the raw data collected during an angler intercept survey?

 To account for the biological growth of the fish over the fishing season
 To scale the raw sample data up to represent the entire population of recreational fishing trips
 To convert the estimated number of fish caught into total biomass
 To adjust the estimates for the natural mortality of the stock


16.
In complex survey sampling, if an intercept survey captures an extremely rare, uncharacteristically high catch that drastically skews the expanded total estimate, which statistical approach is commonly used to mitigate its impact while retaining the data? (ZA-4 ONLY)

 Deleting the outlier record entirely from the dataset
 Changing the catch value to zero
 Increasing the sample size of past surveys
 Applying weight trimming or robust estimation techniques


17.
Fishery managers are increasingly exploring non-probability data sources, such as opt-in angler smartphone apps. To generate statistically valid estimates about the entire angler population using such non-probability samples, which statistical approach would be required to mitigate selection bias? (ZA-4 ONLY)

 Treating the data as a simple random sample if the sample size reaches the required threshold
 Calibrating or weighting the non-probability data against a parallel probability-based reference survey
 Removing any trips where zero fish were caught to normalize the distribution
 Replacing existing survey data with the app data to reduce overall variance


18.
A significant portion of recreational catch consists of fish that are released alive. What parameter must scientists estimate to accurately account for the impact of these released fish in a stock assessment?

 Fecundity
 Catchability coefficient
 Discard mortality rate
 Carrying capacity


19.
When conducting a mail-based survey to estimate recreational fishing effort, which type of bias occurs if anglers who fish frequently are more likely to complete and return the survey than those who rarely fish?

 Non-response bias
 Recall bias
 Prestige bias
 Measurement bias


20.
To accurately estimate total recreational fishing effort through an off-site mail survey, which of the following provides the most statistically robust sampling frame?

 National commercial vessel registries
 Comprehensive residential postal address files matched with state fishing license databases
 Port sampling logs
 Randomly generated mobile phone numbers


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


21.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙