Position Title
Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12975834-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


9.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current BEP employee with status eligibility.
 I am a current BEP employee serving on a permanent Veteran's Recruitment Appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance program eligible (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of ability you possess to perform the duties of a Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader, WE-4449-11, related to leading or supervising.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader duties. I have independently provided technical assistance and routine guidance to Plate Makers (Intaglio) engaged in branch operations. Additionally, in the absence of the Craft Foreman, I have delegated work performed by those under their guidance and provided training to journeymen and trainee Plate Makers.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader duties. I have provided technical assistance and basic guidance to Plate Makers (Intaglio) engaged in branch operations. Additionally, in the absence of the Craft Foreman, I have assisted in delegating work performed by those under their guidance and assisted in providing training to journeymen and trainee Plate Makers.
 I have the ability to perform common Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader duties without supervision I have provided routine assistance and basic guidance to Plate Makers (Intaglio) engaged in branch operations. Additionally, I have led a team and provided directions, monitored work performance, and provided feedback regarding the training of journeymen and trainee Plate Makers.
 I have the ability to perform common Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader duties under direct oversight. Additionally, I have assisted others with technical skills needed to perform routine tasks.
 I do not have the ability to perform any of the duties of a Platemaker (Intaglio) Leader related to leading or supervising others.


2.
From the choices below, select the answer that best captures your ability to evaluate that plates and equipment are prepared, inspected, and documented in accordance with established Quality Control procedures and ISO standards (such as ISO 9001), including monitoring production rates, measurement accuracy, and proper documentation of defects or deviations.
 I have consistently ensured all plate-making activities fully meet QC and ISO requirements. I have routinely set up tools and plating tanks for operation, identified and performed troubleshooting on defects quickly, documented findings with precision, and proactively recommended improvements to maintain production rates and quality work.
 I have regularly met QC and ISO standards with only minor, infrequent discrepancies. I have set up tools and plating tanks for operation, independently performed troubleshooting on defects, reported findings to a supervisor, and proactively recommended improvements to maintain production rates and quality work.
 I have met basic QC and ISO expectations under general supervision by a craft foreman. I have set up tools and plating tanks for operation, followed guidance to perform troubleshooting on defects, reported findings to a supervisor, and maintained satisfactory production rates within my work.
 I have inconsistently applied both QC and ISO procedures. I have frequently missed defects, provided incomplete documentation, and require constant supervision to ensure compliance and production goals are met.
 I have not performed any work related to QC or ISO standards.


3.
From the list below, please choose all of the equipment related to production and/or manufacturing that you have safely operated.
 A. Cylinder Grinder
 B. Nickel Plating
 C. EDM (electrical discharge machining) Equipment
 D. Three Roll Bender/Power Shear
 E. I have not used any of the above production and/or manufacturing equipment.


4.
From the following choices, please select your level of ability to complete the duties of the Plate Maker (Intaglio).
 I have the ability to independently complete the full range of duties of a Plate Maker (Intaglio). I have completed all of the required training in the Plate Making process in order to become highly proficient in the specialized skills and procedures unique to the plate making process in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
 I have the ability to complete the wide range of duties of a Plate Maker (Intaglio) with minimal supervision. I have completed all the required training in the Plate Making process in order to become highly proficient in the specialized skills and procedures unique to the plate making process in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
 I have the ability to complete the full range of duties of a Plate Maker (Intaglio) with supervision. I have completed all the required training in the Plate Making process in order to become highly proficient in the specialized skills and procedures unique to the plate making process in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
 I have the ability to complete the full range of duties of a Plate Maker (Intaglio) with direct supervision. I have partially completed the required training in the Plate Making process in order to become minimally proficient in the specialized skills and procedures unique to the plate making process in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
 I am not a Plate Maker (Intaglio).


5.
From the following, please select the duties and/or tasks related to manufacturing and production that you have completed.
 A. Plating metal in an electroplating tank/Trouble shoot electroplating chemical solutions.
 B. Shaping metal using a break, three roll bender, shears, saw and grinders, and Machining
 C. Applying basic Chemistry concepts.
 D. Use of tools to repair metals.
 E. None of The Above.


6.
What is your ability in reading/interpreting different types of blueprints with metric dimensions in a manufacturing facility?
 I have the ability to read/interpret blueprints/guides that have metric dimensions and relay complex technical data to co-workers. I have used blueprints/guides/manuals to troubleshoot on production equipment and lead others in performing troubleshooting/repairs.
 I have the ability to read blueprints/guides that have metric dimensions and relay simple technical data to co-workers. I have used blueprints/guides/manuals to troubleshoot on production equipment and assist others in performing troubleshooting/repairs.
 I have the ability to read blueprints/guides that have metric dimensions. I have used blueprints/guides/manuals to troubleshoot on production equipment and provide feedback to supervisors as required regarding necessary repairs.
 I have the ability to apply technical data that is interpreted from blueprints as directed by a supervisor or team lead.
 I do not have the ability to read and interpret blueprints that have metric dimensions.


7.
From the choices below, please select all of the computer applications that you have used as part of your duties.
 A. Microsoft Outlook
 B. Microsoft Word
 C. Microsoft Excel
 D. BEP MSS/MEC System
 E. None of the above.


8.
What is your level of ability in interpreting instructions and specifications on different types of equipment, systems, and procedures?
 I have led a team that was responsible for manufacturing or production within a facility. I have trained and provided feedback on techniques from quality control manuals and/or ISO standards as a team lead or journeyman.
 I have assisted with leading a team that was responsible for manufacturing or production within a facility. I have trained and provided feedback on techniques from quality control manuals and/or ISO standards as a team lead.
 I have worked collaboratively as part of a team that was responsible for manufacturing or production within a facility. I have trained and provided feedback on techniques from quality control manuals and/or ISO standards as a team lead.
 I have been a part of a team that was responsible for manufacturing or production in a facility under direct supervision. I have read quality control manuals and/or ISO standards and gave feedback to members of a team.
 I have not interpreted instructions or specifications for equipment, systems, or procedures.


9.
Choose the statement that best reflects your ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships in a team setting.
 I have led a team and facilitated goals for a program and/or project. I have provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers. I have collaboratively shared information to identify potential issues and proposed possible solutions, agreements, settlements, and/or consensuses.
 I have advised supervisors on team projects or program goals, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, and worked cooperatively within a team to ensure an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution is reached between team members.
 I have worked cooperatively as part of a team to achieve a project or program goal and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others on a team to perform routine duties.
 None of the above.


10.
From the choices below, please choose all of the duties you have completed related to manufacturing and production processes.
 A. Mathematic Skills, which include basic math applications.
 B. Mechanical Drawing and/or AutoCAD.
 C. Interpreting/Applying Quality Control procedures.
 D. Interpreting/Applying ISO Standards.
 E. None of the above.


11.
From the options below, please choose all of the following types of equipment which you have safely used and/or operated within a manufacturing or production environment.
 A. Micrometers, digital calipers, and graduated Steel Rule.
 B. Profilometers.
 C. Optical comparator/Visual Inspection System.
 D. Depth Measuring Device.
 E. None of The Above.


12.
From the choices below, please choose all of the tools/equipment related to manufacturing and production processes that you have used as part of your daily duties.
 A. Tensiometer
 B. Hardness Tester
 C. X-Ray Fluorescence (XRF) Tool
 D. Dial Indicator
 E. None of the Above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙