Position Title
Interdisciplinary Supervisory Physical Scientist/Environmental Engineer-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-INTER-12977524-TLA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0819 - Environmental Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a SUPERVISORY INTERDISCIPLINARY ENVIRONMENTAL POSITION, NH-0819,1301-03. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the NH-0819-03 Environmental Engineer position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is NOT ABET accredited, but my education included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the following seven disciplines: (A) statistics or dynamics, (B) strength of materials (stress, strain relationships), (C) fluid mechanics or hydraulics, (D) thermodynamics, (E) electrical fields and circuits, (F) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), and (G) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B) above, but I am registered as a professional engineer in a State, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. In addition, I have a combination of education and experience. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts and EIT certification.
 I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B), but I have passed the Engineer in Training (EIT) examination, and in addition, I have a combination of education in the field of engineering and professional engineering experience. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts and EIT certification.
 I do not have a degree as described in a (A) or (B) above, but I have completed at least 60 semester hours of course work in the Physical, Mathematical, and Engineering Sciences. This course work included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the seven areas listed in response (B). Also, I have professional engineering experience. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have a Bachelor or higher degree in engineering technology, chemistry, physics, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology, or another scientific field directly related to engineering. In addition, I have several years of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I have provided a copy of the completed training plan. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not have any education or experience as described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the NH-1301-03 Physical Scientist (Environmental) position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 I have a degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. OR a combination of education and experience with education equivalent to one of the majors in one of the disciplines above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not have the basic education or experience as described in A above.


3.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of INTERDISCIPLINARY ENVIRONMENTAL POSITION/PHYSICAL SCIENTIST, NH-0819, 1301-03. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower broadband (NH-02) or (GS-11) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc.) and is described in detail in my resume. An example of creditable specialized experience includes: delivering technical expertise and program support, guiding the organization to achieve environmental compliance and effective resolution of environmental challenges for assigned environmental media programs air quality; water quality; hazardous waste; hazardous materials; Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants; solid waste; Environmental Management System; pollution prevention (P2); and toxics (lead, asbestos and polychlorinated biphenyl’s (PCBs programs; managing environmental programs and budgets by developing strategic plans, administering contracts, and ensuring fiscal responsibility to meet the organizations environmental goals; collaborating with and negotiated favorable outcomes with federal, state, and local agencies, along with internal stakeholders, to address environmental compliance issues and resolve conflicts.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of the position.


4.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙