Position Title
Deputy Director of Program Monitoring and Evaluation
Agency
Trade and Development Agency
Announcement Number
TDA-26-MP-12964174MR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Do you meet the following eligibility?

I am a current federal employee with the hiring agency.
To verify your eligibility as a current agency employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.

Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?

I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused  from the agency hiring for this position; and

I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; and
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For items 1 and 2, please read the following statements carefully. Your response to the following questions will determine whether you will be eligible for this position or not. If you respond "No" to any question in this section, you will not be eligible for consideration for this position.


1.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire will be true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire will be true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


2.
Are you willing to serve an initial and possible subsequent probationary period?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to submit to an initial drug test and subsequent random testing?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to complete an annual financial disclosure?

 Yes
 No


We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


6.
At the GS-14 level, you must meet one of the following qualifications:

 Specialized experience is that which has equipped the applicant with the competencies to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. At the GS-14 level, you must have one year of experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience includes: Conducting or overseeing rigorous analysis of programmatic performance and utilizing data and evidence to inform decision-making. Overseeing the evaluation of U.S. foreign assistance programs intended to promote U.S. exports or economic growth in developing and middle-income countries; experience applying complex qualitative and quantitative evaluation processes and procedures to determine the effectiveness of international programs and projects; developing and utilizing complex databases, spreadsheets, charts, graphs, reports and tables in order to present findings and conclusions; experience applying theoretical frameworks, federal guidance and regulations, or principles of rigorous inquiry to real-life environments related to foreign assistance and economic development programs; conducting program monitoring; conducting close-out compliance monitoring and close-out processes associated with grants, contracts, or other cooperative agreements; overseeing the development of monitoring and risk management strategies to ensure successful program delivery; overseeing grant or contract termination and de-obligation of funding; and experience serving in an advisory role, leading, guiding, and influencing others.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience in the amounts specified in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙