Position Title
Sports Specialist (Fitness Trainer)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13000759 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have at least one of the following?
 I have an undergraduate or graduate degree with a major in physical education.
 I have at least 1-year specialized experience in providing certified group exercise instruction or certified personal training.
 I have a High School Diploma AND a certification from the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC).
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Do you have a current specialty certification relevant to the program area (e.g., Step, Cycle, Water Aerobics, Personal Training)? (Must attach to get credit.)
 I have 3+ additional specialty certifications.
 I have 2 additional specialty certifications.
 I have 1 additional specialty certification.
 I have no additional specialty certification.


3.
Do you have a current fitness instructor or personal trainer certification from an accredited health/fitness organization (must upload copy of certification for consideration). Recognized primary certifications are from National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC)-accredited certification.
 Yes
 No


4.
How many years' experience do you have assisting customers by providing general fitness information, instruction on proper use of fitness equipment (i.e. facility orientations), exercise prescription and program information? Must be documented on your resume.
 I have 3+ years' experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years' experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years' experience with the above.
 I have less than 1-year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Do you have any of the following certificates (check all that apply)? Upload all current certifications with resume.
 Mission Nutrition (Navy) Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) - Operational Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) - Online Course
 Navy Operational Fitness & Fueling System (NOFFS) -Strength, Endurance, & Sandbag Series (SES) Course
 Command Fitness Leader Course
 CPR/First Aid
 Other military service fitness certification (e.g. USMC AMP-IT or USMC HITT)
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙