Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Litigation Support)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-OR-12928453-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center help.usajobs.gov/index.php/What_is_CTAP%3F)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current employee of the Department of Justice (DOJ)? If you are a current permanent DOJ employee in the competitive service and currently hold a position at the next lower grade, at the same grade, or at a grade higher than this position being advertised, you may qualify to apply as a current agency employee. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, that reflects current employment with the DOJ and career/career-conditional tenure (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND status in the competitive service (Positional Occupied field is 1). You may also be required to submit your most recent performance appraisal, check the announcement to verify documentation requirements.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eugene, OR
 B. Medford, OR
 C. Portland, OR


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For each of the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-07 Legal Administrative Specialist.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 (or higher grade level) in the Federal government performing the following work: performing routine litigation support assignments such as assisting with organizing case information; preparing discovery productions, including scanning and coding documents and creating CDs; assisting attorneys in preparing for court such as preparing exhibits, compiling trial notebooks, compiling witness and exhibit lists; verifying citations; and preparing a variety of legal documents; assisting in the use of technology to organize digital evidence; and editing a variety of legal documents, such as information requests, subpoenas, correspondence and memos.
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited educational institution AND meet Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) based on ONE of the following: (1) class standing (upper third standing in graduating class); OR (2) grade-point average (2.95 or higher overall or over the last two years of bachelor's degree or 3.45 in my major field or over the last two years in my major); OR (3) election to membership in a national scholastic honor society. In order to be creditable under this provision, superior academic achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualify for the position to be filled.
 I have at least one full year of graduate level study, or possess a master’s or higher degree, e.g., Ph.D., etc., in a field that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work of the position (e.g., Criminal Justice, Law).
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have less than one year of graduate level education as described in C. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify).
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.



3.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-09 Legal Administrative Specialist.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07(or higher grade level) in the Federal government performing the following work: assisting attorneys and legal support personnel with court rules, regulations and procedures, analyzing and evaluating legal decisions and case files to identify relevant issues and potential evidence; recommending automated support methods for trials; customizing databases and programs for user needs; assisting with trial preparation and presentations, and assisting attorneys with automatic evidence presentation in court; preparing motions, orders, pleadings, subpoenas and legal briefs, summaries of analyses and decisions, and pre-trial documents.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree in a related field (e.g., Criminal Justice, Law); or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than one year but less than two years of education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify).
 My education and experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Identify the specific experience from your resume or cover letter that validates your response. Also list the name and contact information of someone who can verify your response.



As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


5.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙