Position Title
Supervisory Inspector General-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-180104-12942596-JDJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Inspector General at the NH-04 grade level or equivalent pay band. Your resume must support the response you select.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience to at least the next lower broadband (NH-03), equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-13), or equivalent in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include developing policy, goals and objectives that integrate IG programs to comply with AF and DoD objectives; Reviews and assigns a variety of IG complaints, grievances, or inquiries that cover a diverse range of complex subjects and allegations; Manages self-assessment and/or staff assistance visits (SAV), and ensures detailed and comprehensive reports with any corrective action taken are presented to the wing/center commander.
 I do not possess any of the experience described in the above statement.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙