Position Title
Supervisory Quality Assurance Specialist
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POGN-26-13022116-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Quality Assurance Specialist position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-3, GS-13, or equivalent level under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Planning/developing/implementing a Quality Assurance Program; Advising on complex or unprecedented quality assurance problems which may require the development of new techniques, procedures, or changes in Agency policy; Advising senior leaders, Directors, Commanders, contractors, contracting officers, etc., as a subject matter expert on quality assurance processes; Providing direction, maintaining ethical standards, and leading teams in executing complex contract management and operational responsibilities in a high-accountability Department of War (DoW) environment.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
This question will be used to identify whether you meet the necessary Critical Acquisition Position or Critical Acquisition Position requirement for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 I possess four (4) years of Acquisition experience.
 I do not possess the requirement mentioned above.


3.
How do you most effectively motivate a team facing competing priorities and high workload?

 Set clear priorities, explain mission impact, and provide support/resources.
 Escalate all issues to senior leadership.
 Allow the team to self-manage without direction.
 Tell the team to push through without additional guidance.


4.
Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?

 By maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 By providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 By coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 By not communicating with appropriate executives and partners to ensure policy and procedures are communicated (0)
 By assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts a criteria.


5.
Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial.

 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I do not adapt my communication style to the audience, nor do I maintain positive relationships with external stakeholders. I only communicate with internal stakeholders.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.


6.
How should a supervisor align team performance objectives with evolving agency priorities?

 Maintain prior goals to ensure stability.
 Adjust goals informally without documentation.
 Communicate revised priorities, update performance plans, and monitor progress.
 Wait for annual appraisal cycle.


7.
A team member repeatedly misses deadlines. What is the appropriate next step?

 Wait until formal discipline is required.
 Reassign all work permanently without addressing the cause.
 Ignore the issue and hope performance improves.
 Conduct a documented performance discussion with clear expectations.


8.
A project is behind schedule. What demonstrates accountability?

 Provide leadership an accurate status and recovery plan.
 Assign blame externally.
 Direct overtime without explanation.
 Delay reporting to leadership until impacts become unavoidable.


9.
How should supervisors ensure accountability for critical work?

 Assume experienced staff will self-manage without oversight.
 Rely primarily on verbal confirmation.
 Establish clear ownership, implement review processes and verify completion.
 Only review after problems occur.


10.
When managing limited resources across competing mission requirements, what is the most appropriate supervisory action?

 Distribute resources evenly regardless of priority.
 Prioritize based on mission risk and documented objectives.
 Defer decisions to higher headquarters.
 Address issues only when shortages occur.


11.
A major deliverable from your team was submitted late. Leadership asks what happened. What is the best response?

 Blame the team and state that the delay was outside your control.
 Acknowledge your role, describe immediate corrective steps, and provide context.
 Explain the factors that caused the delay and identify who was responsible.
 Take full ownership as the supervisor, present root-cause findings, outline corrective actions, and describe how you will prevent recurrence.


12.
Your team must adopt a new technology, but several employees lack the necessary skills. How do you proceed?

 Share online resources and hope they review them.
 Conduct a skills assessment, create a structured training plan, provide hands-on practice, track progress, and adjust support as needed.
 Provide hands-on practice opportunities and monitor progress.
 Expect them to learn it on their own time.
 Arrange training sessions and encourage participation.


13.
What is the most appropriate way to support the development, growth and fairness of individual team members and subordinates?

 Keep them in the same role to maintain stability.
 Limit additional responsibility.
 Use them only to train others.
 Provide equitable access to development opportunities based on documented performance, competencies, and organizational needs.


14.
What best promotes continuous development in the workforce?

 Focus only on immediate operational tasks.
 Leave development optional.
 Provide structured learning and time to apply new skills.
 Discourage experimentation.


15.
A recurring problem persists. What should the supervisor do?

 Continue applying short term foxes to keep operations moving.
 Escalate the issue or reassign ownership without analysis.
 Address only the immediate incident and move on.
 Conduct a structured root-cause analysis and implement preventive actions.


16.
You must make a decision with limited information. What is the best approach?

 Use the best available data, evaluate risks, and choose the safest viable option while remaining ready to adjust.
 Make a decision primarily based on past experience or intuition.
 Seek consensus and delay the decision until more certainty is available.
 Postpone the decision until all information is available.


17.
Your team struggles to solve issues independently and frequently escalates minor problems. What is the most effective problem-solving method that you should use?

 Build a problem-solving development program, provide coaching, create practice scenarios, reinforce critical thinking, and empower the team to resolve issues independently.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
 Handle all problems yourself to ensure they’re done correctly.
 Encourage the team to try harder before escalating.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.


18.
policy change creates operational ambiguity for your team. What is the most effective response?

 Continue current practice until directed otherwise.
 Seek clarification, assess operational impact, and provide interim guidance.
 Pause operations.
 Let each team member interpret independently


19.
After a major conflict is resolved, what actions help rebuild long term trust and team cohesion?

 Reinforce shared goals and team identity.
 Conduct follow up check ins to ensure issues remain resolved.
 Avoid discussing the conflict again to prevent reopening wounds.
 Recognize positive collaboration behaviors as they emerge.


20.
How should supervisors manage technical disagreements?

 Minimize communication to avoid friction.
 Encourage open discussion and define escalation paths.
 Avoid direct involvement unless the issue escalates.
 Let the loudest voice decide


21.
If two employees are upset because they believe workload assignments are unfair. What would your response be to these employes?

 Meet with both employees, discuss workload criteria, and adjust assignments transparently.
 Review workload data, involve employees in discussing expectations, adjust assignments, and implement a clear, equitable workload distribution process.
 Tell them, “That’s just how it is” and move on.
 Explain that you’ll try to balance things better next time.


22.
Two high-performing employees have ongoing interpersonal tension affecting productivity. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?

 Separate assignments permanently.
 Address concerns individually and facilitate a mediated discussion.
 Ignore because performance is still acceptable.
 Issue a general reminder about professionalism.


23.
During a final acceptance inspection, one of your senior Quality Assurance Representatives (QARs) identifies that a structural bracket utilizes a different alloy than specified in the contractual Technical Data Package (TDP). The contractor produces internal engineering analysis demonstrating the substituted alloy exceeds the structural requirements and states it is a form, fit, and function equivalent. The contractor urges the QAR to accept the lot to meet an urgent mission fielding schedule. How should you guide your QAR to proceed?

 Instruct the QAR to accept the lot since the contractor’s engineering analysis verifies the substituted material is superior to the original specification.
 Instruct the QAR to provisionally accept the lot based on the urgent fielding schedule, provided the contractor signs a memorandum accepting liability for any future field failures.
 Instruct the QAR to reject the lot and require the contractor to submit a formal Request for Variance (RFV) to the Procuring Contracting Officer and the Engineering Support Activity for technical evaluation and disposition prior to any acceptance.
 Instruct the QAR to reject the lot and direct the contractor to rework or replace the brackets to conform precisely to the existing TDP specifications.


24.
Within DoW policy frameworks for Corrective Action Requests, which condition generally warrants the escalation of a CAR from Level II to Level III?

 A minor noncompliance found during a routine product examination that the contractor corrects on the spot.
 A systemic noncompliance where Level II corrective actions have been ineffective, or where a significant deficiency exists in the contractor's management system.
 A first-time administrative error found in the contractor's shipping documentation.
 Any nonconformance involving a commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) item.


25.
You are analyzing quarterly quality data for a facility producing tactical communications gear. The data reveals a persistent trend of minor soldering defects across multiple production lines. The contractor's QA program identifies and reworks these defects internally before presenting the items for Government acceptance. The contractor views this as evidence of an effective QA system. How do you evaluate the effectiveness of their QA program based on this data?

 Increase Government sampling rates at the final inspection point to ensure the contractor’s rework is successfully catching all soldering errors before presentation.
 Conclude the QA system is highly effective because no defective products are being presented to the Government for final acceptance.
 Determine the QA system is ineffective at preventing defects. Direct a system-level audit focused on manufacturing process controls and issue a CAR requiring the contractor to address the root cause of the soldering defects rather than relying on rework.
 Acknowledge the effectiveness of their final inspection process, but formally request the contractor establish a continuous improvement initiative to reduce the rework rate.


26.
When a contractor identifies a suspect or confirmed counterfeit electronic part during their inspection process, what action does DFARS 252.246-7007 (Counterfeit Electronic Part Detection and Avoidance System) mandate they take regarding the Government?

 Return the suspect part to the supplier and deduct the cost from the subsequent Government invoice.
 Segregate the suspect part and report the discovery to the Contracting Officer and the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP).
 Destroy the part securely to prevent it from entering the supply chain and log the destruction in their QA manual.
 Rework the part to meet minimum commercial specifications and offer it to the Government at a substantially reduced price.


27.
When evaluating a defense contractor's Statistical Process Control (SPC) data to determine the effectiveness of their manufacturing controls, what does a process Capability Index (Cpk) of less than 1.0 indicate?

 The process is highly capable and statistically produces virtually zero nonconforming defects.
 The process is not capable of consistently producing products within the specified engineering tolerance limits.
 The contractor is utilizing an outdated or unapproved version of a required quality management standard.
 The measurement system utilized to gather the data is flawed and requires immediate recalibration.


28.
You are supervising a QA team at a major defense contractor facility. Monthly metrics indicate a statistically significant decrease in first-pass yield for a critical avionics sub-assembly over the past quarter. The contractor's QA management acknowledges the trend but attributes it to a recent transition to a new automated testing suite, claiming the physical product quality remains unaffected. How should you direct your QA personnel to adjust their surveillance strategy?

 Issue a Level II Corrective Action Request (CAR) immediately based on the drop in first-pass yield metrics to formally document the negative trend.
 Request the contractor supply validation data for the new test equipment and maintain current surveillance levels while awaiting the analysis of their internal engineering report.
 Direct the team to initiate a targeted process review of the new automated testing suite to validate the contractor’s claim, while simultaneously increasing product examination sampling rates until the root cause is definitively proven and stabilized.
 Decrease direct product inspection to focus entirely on auditing the contractor's calibration and equipment certification records.


29.
You are reviewing a prime contractor's supply chain management processes for a major weapon system. You discover that a critical safety item (CSI) is being manufactured by a second-tier supplier. However, the prime contractor has only flowed down standard commercial inspection requirements to this supplier, omitting the DFARS-mandated CSI quality clauses present in the prime contract. What is the most appropriate supervisory action?

 Accept the current state since the prime contractor retains ultimate liability for the final product's performance upon delivery to the Government.
 Direct the prime contractor to immediately halt acceptance of the CSI from the supplier, issue a Level II CAR citing failure to flow down mandatory DFARS requirements, and require a formal root cause analysis and corrective action plan.
 Contact the local Agency office near the second-tier supplier and request they initiate unannounced inspections to mitigate the risk of the missing contract clauses.
 Issue a formal letter of concern to the prime contractor outlining the missing clauses and request an updated purchasing matrix demonstrating compliance within 30 days.


30.
A Program Management Office (PMO) for a high-visibility missile defense system is facing intense congressional pressure to meet a fielding deadline. During final acceptance testing, your team identifies a recurring software anomaly. The anomaly does not present a safety risk but slightly degrades tracking accuracy. The PMO strongly encourages you to accept the system "as-is" to meet the schedule, promising a future software patch. What is the most appropriate course of action for an NH-1910-04 supervisor?

 Refuse to sign the acceptance documents and insist the PMO delay the fielding schedule until the contractor completes and verifies the software patch.
 Document the exact nature of the nonconformance, coordinate with the Engineering Support Activity to validate the degraded performance, and formally present the findings to the Procuring Contracting Officer. Advise the PCO on the technical risks so they can make an informed decision regarding formal acceptance with consideration or rejection.
 Sign the acceptance documents based on the PMO's authority, but include a lengthy addendum detailing your technical objections to protect your team from liability.
 Accept the system as requested by the PMO since mission fielding schedules supersede minor technical deviations that do not involve critical safety items.


31.
Your team is tasked with performing surveillance on a contractor manufacturing complex communication arrays. A recent Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) audit revealed significant financial instability and cash-flow issues within the contractor's organization. However, current product deliveries have continued to meet technical specifications. As a supervisor, how do you adjust your team's surveillance approach?

 Maintain current product inspection levels but request weekly briefings from the QARs focusing on any slight deviations in product quality trends or process control charts.
 Ignore the DCAA audit findings, as corporate financial matters fall strictly outside the purview of Quality Assurance surveillance responsibilities.
 Direct the team to increase surveillance on the contractor's supply chain management, subcontractor control, and incoming material inspections, as financial instability frequently leads to sourcing cheaper, potentially non-conforming materials.
 Shift the majority of surveillance resources to final acceptance testing to ensure defective communication arrays do not leave the facility.


32.
A QAR under your supervision reports that a contractor is using an uncalibrated torque wrench on a critical structural sub-assembly. The contractor's production manager argues that the torque specification is merely a "guideline," and their highly experienced technicians have a "feel" for the correct tightness, noting there have been no field failures reported in the last five years. How do you advise your QAR to handle this technical deficiency?

 Have the QAR observe the technician tightening the bolts and, if the assembly appears structurally secure, accept the items but issue a Level I CAR for the calibration oversight.
 Concur with the contractor's assessment of technician experience, given the lack of documented historical field failures for this specific sub-assembly.
 Direct the contractor to calibrate the tool by the end of the shift and conditionally accept future sub-assemblies only if they pass subsequent final load testing.
 Instruct the QAR to reject the affected sub-assemblies, issue a Corrective Action Request (CAR) citing a failure to control measuring equipment per the contractually invoked quality standard (e.g., AS9100), and require a formal engineering evaluation of the improperly torqued items.


33.
You issued a Level II CAR to a contractor for repeated dimensional nonconformances on a machined aerospace casing. The contractor submits a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) stating the root cause was "operator error." Their proposed corrective action is to "retrain all machinists on reading blueprints." As the approving supervisor, how do you evaluate the effectiveness of this CAP?

 Conditionally accept the CAP, but require the contractor to provide training attendance rosters and updated qualification records within two weeks to verify the action was completed.
 Approve the CAP without modification, as recurring training is a standard, highly effective method for resolving routine manufacturing deficiencies.
 Accept the CAP to close out the administrative CAR record efficiently, but instruct your QARs to closely monitor the newly trained machinists on the floor for the next 30 days.
 Reject the CAP. "Operator error" is a symptom, not a root cause. Require the contractor to utilize a formal problem-solving methodology (such as the 5 Whys or Fishbone diagram) to determine the underlying systemic reason the operators made the errors (e.g., poor lighting, confusing blueprints, worn tooling).


34.
Under the guidelines of FAR 46.407, Nonconforming supplies or services, who holds the final authority to accept supplies that do not completely conform to contract requirements when the nonconformance is minor?
 The Quality Assurance Representative (QAR) assigned to the facility.
 The Supervisory Quality Assurance Specialist.
 The Contracting Officer.
 The Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), acting independently of the Procuring Contracting Officer.


35.
When a defense contract includes the clause at FAR 52.246-11, Higher-Level Contract Quality Requirement, what specific obligation is placed upon the contractor?

 The contractor must utilize third-party Government inspectors for all critical safety items.
 The contractor is required to obtain ISO 9001 certification within 90 days of contract award.
 The contractor must comply with the higher-level quality standard selected by the contracting officer and establish a system to ensure compliance.
 The contractor assumes responsibility for drafting all Government QA surveillance plans associated with the contract.


36.
According to FAR 42.302, Contract Administration Functions, which of the following tasks is a normal responsibility delegated to the Contract Administration Office regarding quality assurance?

 Modifying the technical specifications of the contract to reflect current industry standards.
 Ensuring contractor compliance with quality assurance requirements and evaluating the contractor's quality system.
 Terminating the contract for default upon the first instance of a major product nonconformance.
 Determining the overarching acquisition strategy and milestone schedule for the weapon system program.


37.
Which statement accurately reflects the Government's quality assurance rights for contracts acquiring strictly commercial items under FAR Part 12 procedures?

 The Government retains the right to conduct comprehensive in-process manufacturing inspections at the commercial facility.
 The Government requires the contractor to adopt standard military quality systems for all commercial off-the-shelf items modified for DoD use.
 The Government relies on the contractor's existing quality assurance systems and typically inspects commercial items only at the time of delivery.
 The Government waives all inspection rights for commercial items if the contractor provides a signed certificate of conformance.


38.
A newly awarded non-commercial contract includes the standard clause FAR 52.246-2, Inspection of Supplies—Fixed-Price. The contractor is refusing your QAR access to their internal environmental testing lab, claiming the contract only authorizes Government inspection at the final packaging and shipping station. How should you, as the QA Supervisor, address this contractual dispute?

 Review the contract language formally with the contractor, highlighting that the FAR Inspection clause grants the Government the right to inspect and test at all places and times before acceptance. If access is still denied, escalate the issue immediately to the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO).
 Advise the QAR to request copies of the testing lab's final reports and rely on documentation review in lieu of physical access to the lab environment.
 Concede to the contractor's interpretation to maintain a positive working relationship and avoid delaying the critical production schedule.
 Instruct the QAR to document the denial of access in their surveillance record and focus all available effort on maximizing the thoroughness of the final packaging station inspections.


39.
In the context of federal contract management (FAR Subpart 42.5), what is the primary purpose of conducting a Post-Award Orientation conference with a defense contractor?

 To renegotiate the final delivery schedule based on the contractor's current manufacturing workload and facility capacity.
 To conduct the initial source inspection and baseline physical configuration audit of the first article components.
 To achieve a clear and mutual understanding of all contract requirements and to identify and resolve potential problems early in the performance period.
 To finalize the contractor's pricing structure and forward pricing rate agreements for the duration of the performance period.


40.
The prime contractor for a critical ground vehicle program proposes a Value Engineering Change Proposal (VECP) that alters the vehicle's armor plating composition to save weight. The contractor is pushing for immediate implementation on the active assembly line, anticipating rapid Government approval. The buying command's Program Management Office (PMO) expresses conceptual support for the idea in an email. What is the appropriate posture for your QA team?

 Allow the contractor to build prototypes using the new armor on the production line, but quarantine those specific vehicles from final acceptance until the VECP is officially approved.
 Ensure the team continues inspecting to the current, formally approved technical data package until a contract modification incorporating the VECP is officially executed by the Contracting Officer.
 Advise the QARs to accept the new armor configuration conditionally based on the PMO's email, keeping a detailed log of affected vehicle identification numbers for future documentation updates.
 Implement the VECP parameters immediately on the production line based on the PMO's conceptual support in order to maximize the Government's potential cost savings.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙