Position Title
Secretary (OA)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12904908-26-CMB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 10, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Do you possess one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this position? To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-4 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes: receiving visitors and telephone calls to the office; scheduling appointments; coordinating meetings and conferences; preparing correspondence, reports, memoranda, and other forms of written communication; preparing travel arrangements; and maintaining files. A full year of work is considered to be 35-40 hours of work per week. Part-time experience will be credited on the basis of time actually spent in appropriate activities. Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

 Yes
 No


2.
SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: Have you successfully completed 4 years of education above the high school level? This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite. One year of full-time undergraduate study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial or technical school. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)

 Yes
 No


3.
COMBINATION OF EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: Do you possess equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience to meet total qualification requirements at the GS-5 level? Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)

 Yes
 No


4.
TYPING PROFICIENCY: I can type at least 40 words per minute.

 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Veteran's Preference Documentation Reminder - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Clerical competency (Knowledge of filing, typing, entering data, maintaining records, taking shorthand, and using and completing forms.).


1.
Task: Schedule and review work activities performed in an office, including reporting and record keeping.
To effectively schedule and review work activities for a small administrative team, the most critical step the Secretary must perform is to:

 Personally approve every team member's time-off request.
 Maintain a centralized administrative calendar of recurring deadlines (e.g., reports, audits, monthly reviews) and assign status checks to ensure timely completion.
 Only report on work that was fully completed within the current week.
 Change the deadlines for any activity that the team finds challenging.


2.
Task: Review and direct incoming documentation/inquiries and take personal action when applicable or direct to appropriate staff as needed.
Upon receiving a complex external inquiry via email that is directed to the office's general inbox, the first step a Secretary should take is to:

 Review the content to determine the subject matter (e.g., finance, HR, policy), assign a tracking number, and forward it to the single most appropriate staff member or subject matter expert for action.
 Immediately delete the email if they don't know the exact answer.
 Reply to the sender stating the office is too busy to process their request immediately.
 Forward the email to all staff members simultaneously so they can decide who should handle it.


3.
Task: Maintain files and reports.
When organizing official administrative files (both physical and electronic), the most important rule for the Secretary to follow is to:

 Sort all documents by the day of the month they were created.
 Store the most sensitive documents under a password that is easy to guess.
 Use a standardized, pre-approved filing scheme (e.g., alphabetical, chronological, or numerical) and ensure all files are accurately labeled for easy retrieval and compliance with retention policy.
 Use unique, complex naming conventions that only the Secretary can understand.


4.
Task: Maintain office compliance regarding regulations, policies, and guidelines as established.
To ensure the office is complying with a mandatory internal policy regarding data security (e.g., how to handle sensitive information), the Secretary should:

 Create an entirely new, simpler security policy that is easier for staff to remember.
 Assume all staff members are automatically aware of new regulations.
 Only review the policy manual once per year during the annual performance appraisal period.
 Monitor procedural changes, securely store official policy manuals, and proactively communicate relevant updates to staff to enforce adherence to current guidelines.


The following statements pertain to the Manages and Organizes Information competency (Identifies a need; gathers, organizes, and maintains information; determines its importance and accuracy, and communicates it by a variety of methods.).


5.
Task: Enter all reports within an expedient time frame.
A Secretary is responsible for entering several completed data collection forms into a central database. To ensure the information is entered within an expedient time frame and remains accurate, the best approach is to:

 Rush the data entry process and skip double-checking the numbers for speed.
 Prioritize the forms by urgency/deadline, implement a systematic quality check (such as double-checking critical fields) before saving, and ensure data integrity.
 Wait until all forms for the entire month have been collected before starting the data entry process.
 Use personal shorthand codes during data entry that only the Secretary understands.


6.
Task: Maintain calendar for manager, i.e. scheduling appointments.
When scheduling a new appointment for a manager, the most important step in maintaining the calendar efficiently and accurately is to:

 Schedule the appointment in a time slot that is already fully booked.
 Only check the calendar for conflicts that occur on the same day.
 Immediately confirm the appointment with all attendees via a calendar invitation, ensure the meeting details (location, purpose, duration) are clear, and check for any potential conflicts with existing high-priority meetings.
 Assume the manager will remember the appointment time without an electronic notification.


7.
Task: Maintain employee records.
A key part of maintaining official employee records (e.g., training certificates, certifications) is ensuring their security and accessibility. The best practice for a Secretary to manage this is to:

 Keep all records in an unsecured physical binder on the desk for easy access.
 Delete the oldest records every year to save electronic storage space.
 Scan the records and email the digital copies to the employee's personal email account.
 Store records in a locked filing cabinet or secure electronic system, restrict access only to authorized personnel, and ensure documents are filed immediately upon receipt to maintain the audit trail.


8.
Task: Prepare travel arrangements for staff.
When preparing travel arrangements for staff, the Secretary must ensure the booking is compliant with policy and organized effectively. The best way to accomplish this is to:

 Verify all travel requests are pre-approved, secure bookings through authorized travel systems, and organize a clear itinerary package that includes confirmation numbers, expense forms, and compliance receipts.
 Book the flights and hotels first, and then seek pre-approval after the reservations are confirmed.
 Only book the flight and leave the staff member to arrange their own transportation and lodging.
 Use a personal credit card to pay for all travel expenses to earn loyalty points.


The following statements pertain to the Communications competency (Effectively expresses information to multiple audiences through clear, convincing oral and written communications; demonstrates logical thinking when describing facts and concepts, and shapes communications to meet the needs of a specific audience; actively listens to others and demonstrates understanding of their comments and/or questions.).


9.
Task: Perform transcription from dictation cassette tapes or handwritten forms.
When transcribing important notes from handwritten documents into an official digital format, the most critical communication-related action is to:

 Add your own personal opinions and observations to the manager's notes.
 Ensure 100% accuracy in transferring content, use appropriate professional terminology and formatting, and immediately clarify any illegible or ambiguous sections with the author before final typing.
 Change the order of the transcribed points to create a more dramatic flow.
 Guess at any words that are unclear instead of asking for clarification.


10.
Task: Receive incoming calls from patients, clients, staff, and others in need of information.
When receiving a call from a client requesting information you do not have immediate access to, the best communication protocol is to:

 State "I don't know the answer" and immediately transfer them to a random extension.
 Tell the caller they should have called a different office instead of yours.
 Answer professionally, expressively listen to the full request, explain that you need to locate the information, and offer to research the query and call them back with a specific expected timeframe.
 Place the caller on hold for an indefinite amount of time without checking back with them.


11.
Task: Execute and prepare responses to routine correspondence and reports.
The most efficient way for a Secretary to handle a high volume of routine requests that require a standardized email response is to:

 Type out the full response manually every time a request comes in.
 Reply with a single sentence stating that the answer can be found on the company website.
 Only prepare responses to requests that seem interesting to the Secretary.
 Utilize a set of pre-approved templates or form letters for recurring inquiries, ensuring the document is personalized with the recipient's name and the specific details of their request before sending.


12.
Task: Take meeting minutes.
When taking minutes during a formal policy review meeting, the most important organizational principle is to capture:

 Every side conversation and joke that occurred during the meeting.
 The final decisions made, specific action items assigned to individuals, the rationale for those decisions, and the date of the next follow-up meeting.
 Only the names of the people who spoke the most during the discussion.
 Your subjective judgment on whether the meeting was productive or not.


The following statements pertain to the Computer Skills competency (Uses computers, software applications, databases, and automated systems to accomplish work.).


13.
Task: Perform office automation work on personal computer utilizing multiple programs to complete documentation.
A Secretary needs to prepare a manager's weekly presentation using presentation software, incorporating data that must be extracted from a spreadsheet program. The best computer application approach is to:

 Use the "import" or "link" function to transfer the necessary data from the spreadsheet application into the presentation software, ensuring the data is formatted clearly and accurately for the slide layout.
 Manually retype all the data points from the spreadsheet directly into the presentation slides.
 Only use the presentation software's built-in text editor, ignoring the spreadsheet data.
 Print the spreadsheet and use a physical scanner to convert it to an image for the slides.


14.
Task: Utilize a range of office equipment (i.e., copier, fax, telephone, etc.).
When using a multi-function office copier/scanner to digitize a large, sensitive personnel document, the most crucial computer/equipment skill to apply is:

 Making sure the document is scanned at the lowest possible resolution to save file space.
 Leaving the hard copy document in the copier output tray after scanning is complete.
 Immediately emailing the scanned document as an attachment to every person in the office.
 Ensuring the file is saved to the correct secure network folder or password-protected location immediately after scanning, and that the original hard copies are properly secured or shredded.


15.
Task: Maintain tracking mechanism for reports and action items.
To effectively maintain a tracking mechanism for the due dates of various reports, follow-up actions, and deadlines across the office, the most effective computer skill involves:

 Utilizing spreadsheet software or a dedicated database to log the item, assign an owner and a deadline, and use filtering/sorting functions to generate a daily "Overdue" or "Suspense" report.
 Using an instant messaging program to send random deadline reminders to staff.
 Marking the deadlines on a physical wall calendar and taking a photo of it each week.
 Waiting until the manager asks for an update before checking the status of any items.


16.
Task: Utilize a range of software applications (i.e., Word, Excel, Outlook, etc.) to prepare correspondence.
A Secretary needs to draft a formal office memo outlining a change in administrative policy. Which software application is the most appropriate primary tool for this task, and why?

 Microsoft Excel, because it is best suited for calculations and data visualization, not text documents.
 A basic text editor (like Notepad), because it removes all necessary formatting.
 Microsoft Word, because it provides the necessary robust formatting tools (headers, footers, templates) for professional, multi-page document creation and text-based correspondence.
 An email application (Outlook), as a formal memo should be sent directly in the body of an email.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙