Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12921033-AR-26-5085 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question(s):



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
Applicant must possess the following experience:

GENERAL:  3 years of progressively responsible experience, 1 year of which was equivalent to at least GS-4, that demonstrates the ability to:
Analyze problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions;
Plan and organize work; and
Communicate effectively orally and in writing.

Such experience may have been gained in administrative, professional, technical, investigative, or other responsible work. Experience in substantive and relevant secretarial, clerical, or other responsible work may be qualifying as long as it provided evidence of the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) necessary to perform the duties of the position to be filled. Experience of a general clerical nature (typing, filing, routine procedural processing, maintaining records, or other nonspecialized tasks) is not creditable. Trades or crafts experience appropriate to the position to be filled may be creditable for some positions.

SPECIALIZED:  1-year specialized experience must be equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Specialized experience is experience that prepared the applicant to perform the duties of the position. The applicant's educational-degree study program or military or civilian academic courses may substitute for some specialized experience. An applicant must demonstrate the specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, abilities and behaviors) to qualify for a position identified by its position grade and career level. Specialized experience factors encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force.


To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙