Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12879573-AR-25-044A Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


Military Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (118th ASOS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (118th ASOS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (TSgt/E6 - MSgt/E7)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0343-09 Program Analyst.
 I HAVE experience, education, or training 1) in administrative, professional, investigative, technical or other responsible work which demonstrates my analytical ability and a practical and theoretical knowledge of the functions, processes and principles of management and 2) using computer and automation systems.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0343-09 Program Analyst.
 I HAVE at least 36 months experience 1) Must have at least 36 months experience which provided a detailed knowledge of the National Guard organizational structures, functions, procedures and techniques. 2) Experience analyzing and interpreting policies and the procedures of higher headquarters/management as to applicability to current policies. 3) Experience presenting and discussing complex matters in a clear and convincing manner. 4) Experience in communicating with people from various backgrounds and circumstances.
 I HAVE experience and/or education (from an accredited university) to meet the overall specialized experience.
 I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙