Position Title
Revenue & Customer Data Analytics Specialist - Sales, Marketing & International Directorate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
IA-26-04A-12839622-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 25, 2025 to Dec 04, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG), United States Postal Service (USPS), United Sates Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), or Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) career employee?  If yes, please submit a copy of your current PS-50 form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Carol Stream, IL
 B. Bethesda, MD
 C. Milwaukee, WI


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Employees Only:
This announcement is open internally to current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, and PRC career employees only.

All others will be deemed ineligible on this announcement.

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for this position.
 I am a current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC career employee and will submit my PS50 as required.
 I am not a current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC career employee.


2.
Education and Experience Requirement

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.

Refer to the following list of acceptable related degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to: Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a degree in a business-related, government-related, or technical-related field from the provided list, such as accounting, business administration, finance, or public administration from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in performance auditing or an equivalent combination of auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) certification obtained through written examination, or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional Evaluation Experience Qualification Requirement:

Please select which matches your level of experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 More than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional, full-time experience evaluating complex data as part of program and/or performance audits or evaluations, in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency's (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of programs, functions, and operations
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional, full-time experience evaluating complex data as part of program and/or performance audits or evaluations, in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency's (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of programs, functions, and operations
 More than four (4) years but less than five (5) years of professional, full-time experience evaluating complex data as part of program and/or performance audits or evaluations, in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency's (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of programs, functions, and operations
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of professional, full-time experience evaluating complex data as part of program and/or performance audits or evaluations, in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency's (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of programs, functions, and operations
 Five (5) or more years of professional, full-time experience evaluating complex data as part of program and/or performance audits or evaluations, in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) or the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency's (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation at an Office of Inspector General or similar audit organization to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of programs, functions, and operations


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have a Professional Certification, such as a CPA or CIA? (You must submit a copy of the certification. Not required)
 Yes
 No


5.
In-Office Requirement:

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation

This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
Performance Appraisal
Postal Service 50/SF-50 for application eligibility requirement
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Accuracy:
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙