Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT SPECIALIST (CUSTOMER SUPPORT) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12957219-AR-26-103 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (JFHQ - G6) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (JFHQ - G6) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E7 - E9), Warrant Officer (WO1 - CW5) or Officer (2LT - MAJ)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your application will be made to ensure you meet the job requirements. To validate your qualifications for this job, a review of your résumé and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the occupational questionnaire. The rating you receive is based on your responses to the questionnaire and supporting documents. If, after reviewing your résumé and supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, your rating will be adjusted to more accurately reflect your abilities. Please follow all instructions carefully. Errors or omissions may affect your rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the minimum requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-12 Supv IT Specialist (CUSTSPT).
 I HAVE experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled me to understand the stages required to automate a work process; experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems.
 I DO NOT have the experience, education or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-12 Supv IT Specialist (CUSTSPT).
 I HAVE at least 36 months experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization; experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls; experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment; experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed and leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙