Position Title
Program Manager (Senior Action Officer)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-ASA-CTAP-26-12846883 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Friday, December 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service that includes ALL of the following:
Implementing and monitoring performance metrics to assess and improve human capital program operations.
Conducting reviews and evaluations of human capital programs to ensure legislative goals, objectives, and deadlines were met.
Identifying operational deficiencies and developing corrective strategies to resolve program conflicts.
Preparing briefing materials and ensured leadership approval for actions affecting human capital programs.
Serving as a liaison to human capital program offices to support effective implementation of policy initiatives.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙