Position Title
Senior Tax Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13052633K-TSN-0501-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7226) 3211 S Northpointe Dr, Fresno, CA
 F. (CA0281)1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 G. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 H. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 I. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 J. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 K. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 L. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 M. (MD0428) 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 N. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 O. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 P. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 Q. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 R. (NY6466) 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 U. (OR6728) 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 V. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 W. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 X. (PR4066) CARR 28 KM 2.0, Bayamon, PR
 Y. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 Z. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AA. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AB. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 AC. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 AD. (UT1428) 1973 N Rulon White, Ogden, UT
 B. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 C. (VA0088) 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 D. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 E. (WV0273) 1250 Edwin Miller Blv, Martinsburg, WV


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
QUALIIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes:
Experience with IRS functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations to recognize significant tax, program, compliance, financial or operational issues; interpret applicable guidance; and develop or recommend new or revised policies, procedures, corrective actions, or training products for assigned programs.
Applying a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods to conduct program, financial, compliance, quality, or operational reviews; identify trends, risks, and systemic issues; evaluate program effectiveness and internal controls; and develop recommendations for corrective actions and process improvements.
Applying principles of management planning, risk assessment, program and process analysis to develop, design, and implement new or revised policies, procedures, internal controls, review methodologies, workflows, training products, job aids, or other program improvements.
Applying IRS programs, policies, regulations and procedures; recognized as a technical authority in interpreting guidelines and applying them to situations, such as OMB Uniform Guidance, budgets, allowable costs, drawdowns, time/effort reporting, and/or performance measures for grant-funded activities.
Communicating orally to present  plans, findings, risks, recommendations, and proposals to individuals and groups, including senior-level managers, executives, field employees, internal and external stakeholders, partners, and other business units including OCPO (Office of the Chief Procurement Officer); facilitating discussions and gaining cooperation in resolving conflicting or sensitive issues.
Communicating in writing to prepare comprehensive reports, technical guidance, decision documents, review findings, corrective action recommendations, policies, procedures, job aids, training materials, and executive-level briefings; documenting findings and conclusions to support management decisions.
Providing technical guidance and serving as a program, policy and tax law expert to interpret requirements, resolve critical or unusual issues, prepare decision packages and  studies, and develop major recommendations affecting program operations.
Leading or coordinating cross-functional teams and working with IRS business units including OCPO (Office of the Chief Procurement Officer), field operations, contractors, partners, and external stakeholders to resolve  program issues, establish consistent standards and controls, implement corrective actions, and improve program accountability and operational consistency.
 Analyzing program problems, coordinates cross-functional input, identifies new methods, and plans and coordinates functions and systems.
Which of the following best describes your specialized experience for this position?
 I have at least (1) one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than (1) one year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
Which of the following have you performed?
 A. Conducted financial or compliance reviews, including evaluating internal controls, allowable costs, drawdowns, expenditures, supporting documentation, or compliance with applicable requirements.
 B. Monitored contractor performance, deliverables, invoices, costs, or compliance with contract requirements and documented performance issues or recommended corrective actions.
 C. Interpreted and applied complex laws, regulations, policies, IRM provisions, or program requirements and provided technical guidance or recommendations to resolve program issues.
 D. Led or provided technical oversight for complex financial, contractual, compliance, policy, or program activities and advised management on significant findings, risks, or corrective actions.
 E. None of the above


3.
Which of the following do you have experience interpreting and applying to your work?
 A. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
 B. I3607-TS-GS-0501-14-Senior Tax Analyst-Internal
 C. Contract Performance Evaluations
 D. Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS)
 E. OMB Uniform Guidance (2 CFR Part 200) requirements applicable to federal awards
 F. Federal grant financial requirements related to allowable costs, budgets, drawdowns, or time-and-effort documentation
 G. Financial management and internal control requirements used to evaluate stewardship of federal funds
 H. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following describe your contribution to the workplace?
 A. Participated on a cross-functional team involving multiple program areas or stakeholders.
 B. Led a team or workgroup composed of internal or external stakeholders, program areas, partners, contractors, or other business units.
 C. Represented a business unit on a project, review, acquisition, or initiative with national or Servicewide impact.
 D. Facilitated resolution of complex or sensitive issues involving conflicting stakeholder interests, policies, requirements, or priorities.
 E. Led cross-functional efforts that resulted in new or revised policies, controls, procedures, corrective actions, or program improvements.
 F. None of the above.


5.
Which of the following service-wide sources of information have you used to identify trends impacting work processes?
 A. Congressional Office inquiries
 B. Data reports (e.g., training survey results, focus interview results, or testing curriculum results)
 C. Information provided by external sources (e.g., other Federal agencies, Partners, Internal and External Stakeholders including Counsel, and other Business Units)
 D. IRS Strategic Plan
 E. None of the above


6.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience resolving issues?
 Identified and analyzed a tax law/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented within the Business unit
 Identified and analyzed a tax law/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented across Business units (e.g., W & I, SBSE, LB & I, etc.)
 Developed a solution or corrective action implemented across multiple programs or Business units.
 Developed or recommended a solution involving significant policy, financial, compliance, acquisition, or operational issues that resulted in national or Servicewide changes.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following do you have experience developing? (select all that apply.)
 A. Acquisition Strategies
 B. Statements of Work (SOW)
 C. Performance Work Statements (PWS)
 D. Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCE)
 E. Federal Contract modifications
 F. Financial or compliance review plans, procedures, or methodologies
 G. Risk-based review criteria or sampling methodologies
 H. Financial review workpapers, checklists, templates, or documentation standards
 I. Financial review reports, findings, or recommendations for corrective action
 J. Corrective action or remediation plans addressing financial, internal-control, or grant compliance deficiencies
 K. None of the above.


8.
As an Analyst, which of the following documents have you developed, authored, or substantially contributed to?
 A. Periodic program status updates
 B. Publications (including co-authored)
 C. Technical guidance (e.g., FAQ, Job Aids, training materials) or Quick Alerts to tax professionals (e.g. Tax Alerts, Fact Sheets)
 D. Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) sections (including co-authored), policies, standard operating procedures, or other formal procedural guidance.
 E. White papers (e.g., briefing papers, proposals, decision documents)
 F. Draft communications on behalf of a senior manager or an Executive (e.g., TIGTA, GAO, Most Serious Problems [MSP])
 G. Executive-level recommendations or decision packages addressing complex or sensitive program, policy, financial, compliance, or acquisition issues.
 H. None of the above


9.
Which of the following have you performed?
 A. Developed or delivered technical training, course materials, job aids, or other guidance.
 B. Provided technical guidance to employees, managers, partners, contractors, or other stakeholders regarding program requirements, policies, or procedures.
 C. Interpreted laws, regulations, policies, IRM provisions, grant requirements, acquisition requirements, or other guidance to resolve operational issues.
 D. Served as a technical or program subject-matter expert advising senior managers or executives on complex or sensitive issues.
 E. Developed recommendations, policies, procedures, governance frameworks, or controls that were implemented across programs, business units, or Servicewide.
 F. None of the above.


10.
As an Analyst, which of the following program/application review activities have you performed?
 A. Reviewed program/application processes or procedures to ensure compliance with established guidelines
 B. Presented findings and recommended actions to program/application owner/director or operations representative
 C. Collaborated with program/application owner/director or operations representatives to develop process improvements
 D. Conducted follow-up review of program/application to ensure adherence to recommendations
 E. Provided oversight or led a team responsible for the review of products/programs/application processes or procedures to ensure compliance with established guidelines
 F. None of the above


11.
Which of the following computer applications or programs have you used to complete your work?
 A. ADOBE Acrobat
 B. Accurint, Lexis Nexis or Westlaw
 C. Business Objects/SPECforce/Enterprise Case Management(ECM)/Payment Management System (PMS) to retrieve data
 D. SharePoint
 E. VITA/TCE Tax preparation software
 F. Publishing Service Request System
 G. Microsoft 365 suite of products (excluding MS Outlook)
 H. None of the above.


12.
As an analyst, which of the following describe your experience in program/project management?
 A. Developed or administered action plans, milestones, timelines, or deliverables
 B. Monitored multiple activities or deliverables to identify delays, risks, or resource requirements.
 C. Identified lessons learned, risks, or deficiencies and developed revised procedures, controls, or corrective actions.
 D. Coordinated personnel, contractors, stakeholders, or cross-functional resources to accomplish program or project requirements
 E. Led or provided technical oversight for a program, project, financial/compliance review, or acquisition with organizational or national impact.
 F. Advised senior leadership on significant program, financial, contractual, compliance, resource, or performance risks and recommended actions to address those risks.
 G. None of the above.


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙