Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Gastroenterology) (GI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12951641-26-JAD Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Instrument Technician (Gastroenterology) (GI) position with the VA San Diego facility. Please provide an answer to each question. Failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Are you a citizen from the United States of America? (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part. Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. We are NOT going to assume things.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-06 Experience:  In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess at least At least one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-05) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of advanced specialized gastroenterology procedures. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs:
 
Ability to set up endoscopy equipment, ensuring endoscopes and ancillary equipment functions properly.
Ability to aid the physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).
Knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy in order to assist practitioner with routine standardized gastroenterology procedures.
Ability to interact with patients explaining procedures and positioning the patient for the procedure, recognizing disabilities or impaired mobility and assisting the patient as necessary.
Ability to reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME), following approved Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and universal precautions.
Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.
Ability to manually clean and disinfect non-critical reusable equipment and surfaces, dispose of one- time-use equipment and trash per facility policy, and restock supplies such as linens, suction equipment, and cleaning products.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-07 Experience:  In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you possess at least At least one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-06) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of advanced specialized gastroenterology procedures. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs:
 
Knowledge of endoscopic equipment and use in basic and complex endoscopic procedures.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology related to the GI system, with ability to recognize and report obvious abnormalities during procedures.
Ability to assist physician with specialized, complex procedures.
Knowledge of universal precautions and disinfection techniques and ability to follow SOP's to clean reusable medical equipment (RME).
Ability to collaborate, communicate, and demonstrate customer service skills and interpersonal skills with all healthcare professionals to ensure quality and continuity of care.
Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.
Ability to deliver patient care, including vital sign measurements and medication administration.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙