Position Title
Technical Information Specialist (Searcher)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
PATS-STIC-26-13068276-DE
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 Email
 Facebook
 Instagram
 LinkedIn
 @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 Reddit
 Google Reviews
 Handshake University Platform
 Monster
 Indeed
 Glassdoor
 USAJOBS
 University Job Board
 Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 Friend
 USPTO Employee
 Professional Society / Organization
 State Bar Association
 University Career Fair
 Conference
 University Career Placement Office
 Virtual Job Fair
 USPTO Information Session
 USPTO Jobs web pages
 USPTO website
 Other
2.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No
3.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
 I am not a current Federal civilian employee
 Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
 Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
 Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
 Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
 Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
 Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
 Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
 Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
 Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
 Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
 Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
 Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
 Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
 Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
 Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
 Other
4.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.
5.
Are you currently receiving or are you scheduled to receive severance pay as a result of a Reduction in Force (RIF) from a Federal Agency?
 Yes
 No
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
8.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Technical Information Specialist (Min Quals)
.
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.
1.
Applicants must meet the basic occupational qualifications requirements for this position as follows: Basic Requirement: Completed a full 4-year course of study that meets all the requirements for a bachelor's degree with major study in the subject-matter field of the position to be filled. OR Four years of experience that provided a knowledge of the basic principles, theories, practices, techniques, and terminology of a discipline or subject-matter field; an understanding of the standard methods, procedures, and techniques of research and analysis in the subject-matter field; and where appropriate, ability to read and comprehend nontechnical material in one or more foreign languages. Such experience must have been equivalent to that which would have been gained through a 4-year college curriculum. OR A combination of education and experience as described above. Please select the description below that best describes your education and experience.
 I have a full 4-year course of study that meets all the requirements for a bachelor's degree with major study in the subject-matter field of the position to be filled.
 I have four years of experience that provided knowledge of the basic principles, theories, practices, techniques, and terminology of a discipline or subject-matter field; an understanding of the standard methods, procedures, and techniques of research and analysis in the subject-matter field; and where appropriate, ability to read and comprehend nontechnical material in one or more foreign languages. Such experience must have been equivalent to that which would have been gained through a 4-year college curriculum.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described above.
 I do not have the education and/or experience described above.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2.
In addition to meeting the basic occupational requirements stated above, applicants must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-11 level in the Federal service . Specialized experience for this position includes: Conducting searches in commercial databases and systems to locate specific technical information (e.g., related to engineering, scientific, chemical, biotechnology, or real-world process subject matter); AND Reviewing search requests and selecting appropriate resources to develop efficient and cost-effective search strategies to find relevant references; AND Assisting users in a specialized library or information services environment serving a defined customer group. Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service as defined in the statement above?
 Yes
 No
