Position Title
FAP VA & Educator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-102 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a FAP Victim Advocate and Educator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement below that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic requirement for a position in the Social Science Series, 0101.
 I have a 4-year degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (Must submit transcript).
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Must submit transcript).
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (This must be demonstrated in your resume).
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines (Social work, Psychology, Marriage, Family, and Child Counseling, or Counseling or Behavioral Science)? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
And
Two (2) years of experience in a family and children's services public agency or family and children's services community organization, 1 year of which is in prevention, intervention, or treatment of child abuse and domestic abuse.
And
Two (2) years of experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault?
 Yes
 No


3.
This question will be used to determine your specialized experience. Do you possess at least three years of specialized experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to adult and child victims of domestic abuse?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙