Position Title
Attorney Advisor (Trademark)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO-TTAB-26-12883841-EX Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


2.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


4.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Attorney Advisor (Trademark) position with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Your resume and the responses you provide will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
In order to qualify for this position at the GS-15 level, you must possess at least one (1) year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the next lower grade level AND four (4) years of the Professional Legal/Law Experience (post Juris Doctor):

Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Experience performing comprehensive (full spectrum of a case with multiple issues) legal analysis and research in the area of trademark law; (2) Conducting legal analysis of procedural and substantive arguments from legal counsel or pro se parties in the area of trademark law; AND, (3) Independently drafting legally defensible opinions addressing the issues raised by said counsel or parties.

AND

Professional Legal/Law Experience is defined as having experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, abilities and/or competencies to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled in the area.
This experience is in the area of trademark law characterized by: breadth and depth of experience in rendering legal advice and services; representing parties in litigation or in proceedings before federal courts and/or administrative tribunals; acting as principal attorney in charge of the preparation and presentation of cases; researching and drafting pleadings and motions, and/or legal decisions, orders, and/or opinions; managing a docket of cases; adjudicating legal issues; conducting investigations to obtain facts; analyzing questions of law including questions arising under the federal rules of civil procedure and evidence; studying, analyzing and evaluating legal precedents, to present findings. Demonstrated high quality legal writing skills are critical.
 I have at least one (1) year of the specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level AND four (4) years of the professional legal/law experience in the Federal Service as defined in the statement above.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Are you an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution?

 Yes, I am an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution.
 No, I am NOT an active member in good standing of a bar of a State, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the U.S. Constitution.


3.
Do you possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school?

 Yes, I do possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school.
 No, I DO NOT possess a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree or Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree from an ABA accredited law school.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙