Position Title
Pilot Tender
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13041639- DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a First Mate, Towboat or Pilot, Towboat position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Occupational Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Read the following statements (A-E) and select the one response that best describes your ability to perform the duties of a First Mate, Towboat.

 I have independently performed all of the following duties. I am consulted by other employees or in difficult situations regarding performance of the following duties: operating a towboat during the making and breaking of tows, recording navigation data, reading maps and charts and navigating vessels.
 I have performed the majority of the following duties with minimal supervision: operating a towboat during the making and breaking of tows, recording navigation data, reading maps and charts and navigating vessels.
 I have performed the majority of the following duties under normal supervision: operating a towboat during the making and breaking of tows, recording navigation data, reading maps and charts and navigating vessels.
 I have performed the majority of the following duties under close supervision: operating a towboat during the making and breaking of tows, recording navigation data, reading maps and charts and navigating vessels.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 A. Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 B. No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙