Position Title
Financial Analyst/Senior Financial Analyst
Agency
Federal Housing Finance Agency
Announcement Number
DHMG-26-10-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you a current or former FHFA employee who held a career or career-conditional appointment in a position at the EL-15 level or below who has received either: a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed geographic reassignment or relocation outside the commuting area; and who meets the definition of a surplus or displaced employee under 5 CFR §330.602?


If yes, confirm that:

• you are located within the same local commuting area as the vacancy; AND
• you are applying to a position at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
• your most recent performance rating of record is at least Fully Successful or equivalent. For additional information, please review the USAJOBS Help Center.


To verify eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation, such as: your Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice (must include your most recent performance rating, if available); a copy of your most recent performance appraisal, if the RIF notice does not include your rating; and a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50).

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a US citizen? If so, you can apply under this eligibility, without having worked for the Federal Government before.  Veteran's preference applies.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for expressing interest in the Financial Analyst/Senior Financial Analyst position located in the Division of Housing Mission and Goals (DHMG) at the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). You will be evaluated on your responses to this assessment questionnaire; then, we will compare your responses against your resume and supporting documentation. Please Note: Your resume MUST clearly identify the dates that support your experience (month/year) and the number of hours per week worked for each position.


1.
Basic Requirement for Financial Analysts: To be eligible for the 1160 (Financial Analysis) series, you must meet one of the two basic entry requirements as described below. Please select the response that describes your education or education and experience.

If you select option "A" you must provide transcripts with your application. Failure to provide transcripts will remove you from consideration.
 Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, real estate operations, real estate finance or development, statistics, or other fields related to the position, such as public policy, urban planning, or public administration. -OR-
 Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience performing financial analysis and evaluation work requiring a comprehensive knowledge of (1) housing finance, and any specialized fields of finance required such as public finance, securities, international finance, money and securities markets, investments, and banking, and (2) affordable housing and community investment policy, operations, and practices of corporate and other organizations. -OR-
 I do not meet the basic entry requirement described above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications EL-12: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-12 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-12 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-11 or equivalent demonstrating skill in performing work in the following: (1) Conducting quantitative analyses related to housing finance, affordable housing, or community-investment activities; applying statistical or data-modeling techniques under the guidance of senior analysts; and identifying, extracting and analyzing patterns within large, complex data sets; (2) Assisting in identifying, collecting, and managing data needed for housing finance, affordable housing or community investment analysis; and performing data-validation tasks such as reconciling loan-level data, running quality checks, or documenting data issues; (3) Preparing drafts of reports, presentations or briefing materials that summarize quantitative results in plain language, clearly communicated data visualizations such as charts, graphs, or graphics, with both quantitative and qualitative content provided in clear, accessible formats; and supporting senior analysts in developing materials for management or external stakeholders; and (4) Working with analysts, policy staff, and/or other specialists to support research, special projects, and participating in meetings or discussions with internal or external stakeholders on housing finance, affordable housing, or community investment topics. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


3.
Minimum Qualifications EL-13: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-13 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-13 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-12 or equivalent demonstrating skill in performing work in the following: (1) Leading and supporting quantitative analyses related to housing finance, affordable housing, and community investment activities by applying statistical and data modeling techniques, identifying patterns in large data sets, and managing the full data lifecycle, which includes the collection, validation, reconciliation, and documentation of data issues; (2) Monitoring housing finance and community investment programs, policies, and market or regulatory developments to assess risks and impacts on regulated entities, and preparing clear analytical documentation, recommending policy or program changes, and well researched reports and presentations for internal and external stakeholders; and (3) Collaborating with cross functional teams, regulated entities, government agencies, and industry partners to exchange information, supporting analytical projects, communicating complex quantitative findings in accessible language, and providing technical guidance on data requirements, analytical methods, and interpretation of results. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


4.
Minimum Qualifications EL-14: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-14 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-14 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-13 or equivalent demonstrating skill in performing work in the following: (1) Leading advanced statistical, econometric, and data modeling analyses to assess housing finance, affordable housing, and community investment policies, including evaluating macroeconomic impacts and directing major efforts to identify, extract, validate, and analyze patterns within large, complex data sets; (2) Directing multidisciplinary or cross organizational analytical projects, overseeing the development of complex reports, presentations, and briefings for senior leadership, and providing authoritative technical guidance on quantitative methods, data requirements, and interpretation of results that inform significant policy decisions; and (3) Evaluating the effectiveness of housing finance programs and policies, developing or recommending changes to supervisory or policy approaches, and representing the organization in engagements with regulated entities, government agencies, and external stakeholders by communicating complex analytical findings and collaborating to address key housing finance and community investment issues. -OR-
 I do not possess the specialized experience required at the level described above.


5.
Certification of Application: I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. If my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will rate my application based on the level of competency demonstrated in my resume. (If you select "No" to this question, you will be removed from consideration)
 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙