Position Title
Recreation Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
12982598 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Assistant Community Recreation (Outdoor Adventure Center) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Must be 17 years of age or older with a driver's license due to the use of driving a government vehicle

 Yes
 No


2.
This position is a seasonal position NTE 10/31/ of the current year and is subject to the possibility of workdays on weekends and holidays and evenings, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, including on an emergency basis.
 Yes I am available to work all the above requirements
 No I am not available to work all the above requirements


3.
Documented experience in cash register/cash handling

 Two plus years of documented experience with cash register/cash handling
 One to two years of documented experience with cash register/cash handling
 Six months to one year of documented experience with cash register/cash handling
 Less than months or no documented experience but the capability to learn
 No capability to learn


4.
Documented customer service skills

 Two plus years of documented experience in customer service
 One to two years of documented experience in customer service
 Six months to one year of documented experience in customer service
 Less than 6 months or no documented experience in customer service but the capability to learn
 No capability to learn


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙