Position Title
Nursing Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12992981-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


NOTE: The Nursing Assistant, 0621 occupational series has been identified as a position included within the annual determination of staffing shortages approved for waiver of Veterans' Preference in accordance with applicable Office of Personnel Management (OPM) authority. Therefore, Veterans' Preference does not apply to this announcement. Applicants will be evaluated based on their qualifications and eligibility requirements outlined in the vacancy announcement.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: EXPERIENCE, OR EDUCATION, OR TRAINING - Applicants must meet one of the Nursing Assistant series occupational requirements below. Select the response that best describes your education and/or combination of education and experience for the position.


1.
Citizenship -  Are you a citizen of the United States? (Non-citizens may be appointed only when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens, per VA policy.)
 Yes, I am a U.S. citizen.
 No, I am a U.S. citizen.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency -  Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Experience, Education, or Training -  Do you meet at least one of the following qualification requirements for the Nursing Assistant occupation?
 Yes. I have six months of general experience demonstrating the ability to acquire the knowledge and skills needed to perform Nursing Assistant duties.
 Yes. I have completed one year of education above high school with courses related to the Nursing Assistant occupation.
 Yes. I have completed an intensive, specialized, occupation-related training program of less than one year as a Nursing Assistant.
 No. I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


4.
Please provide the following if you are qualified based on education/training (at any grade level).

*If you are qualified based on experience, indicate N/A.*


4a.
Name of Institution/Training Program/Program of Study:
City and State:
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.):
Length of Education:
Month and Year conferred (if applicable):
Courses completed related to this occupation:
Length of training program (if applicable):


This section will be used to determine whether you meet the grade level qualifications for the position. Select the response which best describes your specialized experience and/or education for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.

This position is classified as a GS-3 Nursing Assistant (Entry Level). Individuals at this level must meet the basic requirements and work under close supervision.

Do you meet the basic qualifications for a GS-3 Nursing Assistant, which require no experience or education beyond the basic entry requirements for the occupation?

 Yes
 No


6.

To qualify for the GS-4 Nursing Assistant position, applicants must meet either the specialized experience requirement or the education requirement and be able to demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs).

 I have one year of specialized experience as a Nursing Assistant or in another medical field (such as Licensed Practical Nurse, Health Technician, Hospital Corpsman, etc.) performing technical and nursing tasks that require knowledge of physical and emotional patient states, therapeutic communication, and skills needed for basic and intermediate treatments.

OR

I have completed two years of post-high-school education in an accredited institution with coursework related to nursing care, health care, or other appropriate fields such as psychology, psychiatric care, or operating room technology, AND I can demonstrate the required KSAs: 
Ability to provide a range of patient/resident care and contribute to the nursing care plan and patient recovery.
Ability to observe and report changes in patients'/residents' physical or emotional status to a supervisor promptly.
Ability to properly use equipment, materials, and supplies in simple diagnostic and treatment procedures (e.g., bladder scanner, CPM device, blood glucose monitoring, specimen collection).
Ability to communicate effectively with patients/residents, families, and other healthcare professionals
Do you meet one of the qualification pathways listed below for the GS-4 Nursing Assistant position?
 Yes, I meet the qualifications listed above.
 No, I do not meet the qualifications listed above.


7.

To qualify for the GS-5 Nursing Assistant (Full Performance Level), applicants must meet either the specialized experience requirement or the education requirement and be able to demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs).

I have one year of progressively responsible experience equivalent to the GS-4 level, demonstrating knowledge, skills, and abilities directly related to nursing care assignments.

OR

 I have successfully completed a four-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree that includes 24 semester hours in health care-related coursework, or I possess a bachelor's degree that meets this requirement. AND I can demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care for patients/residents with physical and/or behavioral problems in hospital, long-term care, or outpatient settings under the direction of an RN or LPN/LVN.
Strong oral communication skills with patients/residents, families, interdisciplinary teams, and other staff, including the ability to serve as a preceptor by helping coordinate orientation and assessing new NAs' practical experience.
Ability to recognize and respond to emergent patient/resident care situations and intervene appropriately-for example, identifying the need for basic life support, controlling bleeding, or assisting during behavioral crises.
Do you meet one of the qualification pathways listed below for the GS-5 Nursing Assistant position?
 Yes, I meet the qualifications listed above.
 No, I do not meet the qualifications listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provisions. All NAs employed in VHA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the series and grade held that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:(1)    Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.(2)    If an employee who was retained (grandfathered) under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee loses protected status of the grandfathering provision and must meet the full VA qualification standard basic requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙