Position Title
TITLE 5 GENERAL SUPPLY SPECIALIST GS-2001-11
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WV-13066302-T5-26-132 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each of the following questions, provide a detailed narrative response demonstrating your experience. Be sure to include specific examples, the actions you took, the outcomes achieved, and the environment in which you performed these duties. Your responses will be cross-referenced with your resume to verify your qualifications.


1.
Please describe your experience exercising supervisory or lead personnel management responsibilities. In your response, detail a specific example of how you have established performance standards, evaluated subordinate performance, and addressed a conduct or performance issue. Be sure to explain how you incorporated Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) principles into your management decisions.


2.
Describe your experience developing, implementing, and managing policies or operating procedures for a logistics and supply program. Provide an example of a time you analyzed workload documents and available resources (personnel, equipment, and funds) to advise leadership and ensure mission effectiveness. How did you ensure local procedures aligned with higher-headquarters regulations?


3.
Explain your experience monitoring inventory systems and resolving material support problems. Describe a specific instance where you analyzed inventory data, identified an issue (such as an excessive gain/loss or an equipment fielding bottleneck), and coordinated with external partners (e.g., depot managers, vendors, or higher headquarters) to resolve the discrepancy and ensure property accountability.


4.
Describe your experience performing quality assurance reviews within a logistics or inventory management function. Provide a specific example of how you review and validate requests for the procurement of logistics supplies or services. Detail the steps you take to ensure these requests comply with current authorizations, non-standard requirements, and fiscal law.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you possess experience, education, or training that involved the administration of supply management (such as storage, cataloging, packaging, and distribution, or other work that provided a general knowledge of one or more aspects of the supply field), AND do you have experience utilizing computer and automation systems to perform these duties?
 Yes
 No


6.

Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the federal service (or private sector equivalent) that demonstrates ALL of the following?

Supervising and/or managing supply personnel and a variety of supply program functions;

Comprehensive knowledge of an entire inventory management supply system;

Experience coordinating with external organizations to resolve complex, sensitive, or controversial supply issues;

Experience providing technical advice and guidance on supply regulations and functions to upper-level management; AND

Experience analyzing, developing, and evaluating supply programs, policies, procedures, and techniques to implement improvements.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙