Position Title
Division Manager
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12905518-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized experience for the GS-14 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent, in the public sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:
Overseeing the Banknote manufacturing process (e.g., ink, paper, paper-ink interactions, printing plates and ink technology) to determine the root cause of issues and making suggestions for improvement; AND
Developing production schedules and project plans for a detailed program or operation; AND
Developing strategy for future, staffing, technology and resources.

Select the option that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level described above.
 I do NOT have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level described above.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


3.
Select all options below you have experienced while leading or supervising others.
 A. Evaluating subordinate supervisor's performance.
 B. Preparing formal performance reviews/evaluating the performance of employees.
 C. Recommending selection of new employees.
 D. Delegating responsibility and working through others.
 E. I do not have experience or education in any of the above areas .


4.
Select all options below you have experienced while leading or supervising others.
 A. Resolving informal grievances
 B. Resolving formal grievances
 C. Handling Discipline Problems
 D. Promoting EEO policies
 E. None of the above


5.
Please select the one statement that best describes your experience in managing change.
 I set strategic direction for a manufacturing organization and led the change effort required to move the organization in that direction.
 I led a major change effort in a manufacturing organization.
 I set strategic direction for a manufacturing organization and develop CQA initiatives that I oversee throughout project lifecycles.
 None of the above.


6.
As a Manager, you will have many production planning and administration duties to organize. Choose all options that describe your experience in organizing and planning work.
 A. I have experience in planning and adhering to established daily, weekly or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, priorities, methods and policies.
 B. I have experience in estimating material and manpower needs for specific jobs.
 C. I monitor daily production and prepare production reports for my superiors.
 D. I regularly interpret production/technical manuals and prepare work instructions and procedures for a diverse workforce.
 E. None of the above.


7.
As a Manager, you will have many production planning and administration duties to organize. Choose all options that describe your experience in organizing and planning work.
 A. I regularly coordinate with other production divisions to ensure a smooth flow of production.
 B. I regularly analyze defects and process issues and make recommendations for improvement.
 C. I have developed plans for technical aspects of prototype or highly complex work, where precedents are only suggestive, and where plans must be changed from time to time to meet new requirements.
 D. I have education in the above areas but have not yet had an opportunity to perform any of them on the job.
 E. I do not have experience or education in any of the above areas.


8.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


9.
As a Manager, you will be utilized as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) for several projects. Select all of the following areas where you have experience as an SME.
 A. I have worked on future design and features planning as an SME.
 B. I have worked on equipment planning teams as an SME.
 C. I have worked on hiring panels as an SME.
 D. None of the above.


10.
From the choices below, choose all answers that describe your supervising experienc.
 A. I have experience supervising manufacturing processes.
 B. I have experience with Performance plan development.
 C. I have experience developing production matrixes.
 D. I have experience interpreting and applying production requirements.
 E. I do not have any experience in any of the above areas.


11.
Select the responses that best describe your experience with high-speed inspection system equipment.
 A. As a regular and reoccurring part of my duties, I configure, adjust, monitor, and analyze inspection systems for product quality.
 B. I have experience configuring inspection systems to verify product quality.
 C. I have experience adjusting inspection systems for the detection of defects.
 D. I have experience analyzing inspection results from inspection systems.
 E. I have prepared explanatory presentations on inspection performance.
 F. I have routinely monitored inspection data in support of a product operations process.
 G. I have used inspection system data or displays in support of a product operations process.
 H. None of the above.


12.
Select the statement that best describes your experience with print manufacturing techniques, procedures, and methods.
 I have experience with a wide-range of techniques, procedures, and methods used as applied to securities printing operations, inclusive of intaglio, offset, or gravure (with bindery adaptation) printing processes and equipment.
 I have experience with a wide-range of techniques, procedures, and methods used as applied to printing operations, inclusive of offset, or gravure (with bindery adaptation) printing processes and equipment.
 I do not have experience with print manufacturing techniques, procedures, and methods as described in any of the above statements.


13.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties. We must be able to verify this experience in your resume in order for you to receive credit.


14.
Please select all options that indicate your experience gathering and evaluating information and conducting trends analysis on data.
 A. Monitored work in process (WIP) inventory levels and made decisions based upon data.
 B. Applied analytical and evaluation practices, theories, methods, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues (e.g. financial controls, office budgets, program operation improvements, etc.).
 C. Tracked and monitored completion of organizational assignments and prepared reports that evaluate results and document any trends.
 D. Obtained accurate and sufficient information on competitive industry or customer feedback and recommended service changes based on evaluation of the information.
 E. Conducted analysis, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes in order to provide recommended solutions and improvements.
 F. I do not have experience performing any of the above tasks.


15.
Select ALL of the following written instructions with which you have provided guidance.
 A. ISO manuals
 B. Printing Press operating manuals
 C. Manufacturing equipment operating manuals
 D. Inspection system manuals
 E. None of the above


16.
Select the responses that describe your oral communication experience.
 A. Making informal presentations to co-workers on management/supervisory issues.
 B. Making formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides (e.g., Microsoft Power Point or equivalent), graphics, or flip charts.
 C. Designing and delivering formal courses of training or instruction using a variety of electronic media.
 D. Protecting and relaying sensitive and/or controversial information to only appropriate parties.
 E. None of the above.


17.
Choose the one response that best describes your highest level of experience developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff taking into account individual goals, values and sensitivities.
 I have provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and then accomplish it in a timely, satisfactory manner.
 I have served as acting supervisor on occasion, and assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others. I have led, directed and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects.
 I have supervised a complex, multi-layered workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels.
 I have supervised skilled print craftsmen and support staff in the design and delivery of print products.
 I have no experience in developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙