Position Title
Deputy General Counsel (Ethics & Fiscal)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Army
Announcement Number
DA-26-CMK-12897591 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
Instructions: Thank you for your interest in this Senior Executive Service position with the Department of the Army.  We will evaluate your resume, supporting docummentation and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you were among the best qualified for this positon.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ) - I posess the demonstrated ability to provide sound legal counsel and to manage staff of senior attorneys working in specialized areas of law related to ethics, fiscal law, and financial management.  Expertise in specialized legal areas related to ethics, fiscal law and laws and regulations governing military financial management.

If yes, your resume must show possession of this MTQ.
 Yes
 No


2.
Integrity: I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand, if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand, any information I give may be investigated. I understand, I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙