Position Title
Sports Fitness and Aquatics Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12879970 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 04, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
1.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Sports, Fitness and Aquatics Director aboard Naval Station Everett. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Do you possess a four-year undergraduate degree in Sports or Recreation Management from an accredited university and 1 year Director level experience OR 3 or more years of relative experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please share your educational background.  *Please note:  All transcripts must be uploaded with resume submission to be considered*
 I have a four-year undergraduate degree or higher in Sports or Recreation Management.
 I have a four-year undergraduate degree or higher in a related Recreation field and 3 years of relevant experience.
 I have an associate degree in Sports or Recreation Management and possess certifications in the field.
 I do not have a degree in Sports or Recreation Management or related field, but I have 3 years of experience in a supervisory role
 I do not have a degree in the field, and I do not have any supervisory experience


3.
Incumbent must be capable of organizing and operating several facilities and programs simultaneously. Please share your level of experience with multiple programs.
 I have 3 or more years of supervisory experience in sports, fitness, and aquatics in a DoD organization.
 I have 3 or more years of supervisory experience in sports, fitness and aquatics in a civilian organization.
 I have 3 or more years of supervisory experience in two out of the three listed programs in a DoD organization.
 I have 3 or more years of supervisory experience in two out of three listed programs in a civilian organization.
 I have 1-3 years of experience managing multiple recreational programs within a DoD organization.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in managing multiple recreational programs in a civilian organization.
 I do not have supervisory experience, but I have worked in these programs


4.
Please share your level of experience with planning, presenting, and executing budgets for multiple programs.
 I have at least 3 years of experience in this competency with APF and/or NAF budgeting.
 I have at least 3 years of experience in this competency in a civilian organization.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency with APF and/or NAF budgeting.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency in a civilian organization.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in budgeting for multiple programs.
 I do not have any practical experience budgeting for sports, fitness and aquatics programs


5.
This position will supervise employees in a range of positions from entry level to supervisory.  Please share your level of experience in a supervisory position.
 I have at least 3 years of experience supervising between 5 - 30 employees.
 I have at least 3 years of experience supervising less than 5- 30 employees.
 I have 1-3 years of experience supervising between 5 - 30 employees.
 I have 1-3 years of experience supervising less than 5 - 30 employees.
 I do not have supervisory experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙