Position Title
Dental Assistant
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-26-13085276-DHA
Open Period
Oct 10, 2026 to Oct 21, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only JA JTDHMTF0122 13085276 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Dental Assistant position with Department of War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Basic Requirement: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. You must (1) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as a radiographer in your field. Select the one statement that best describes how you meet this certification requirement.
 I meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND am certified as a radiographer in my field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 I was employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel PRIOR TO the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986). (Note: You must attach evidence with your application of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a Doctor of Medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others.)
 I was first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel AFTER the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986), and (1) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation; OR (2) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program. (Note: You must attach evidence with your application to prove training, experience, and competence. Examples of acceptable proof: transcripts, letter of recommendation, etc.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Dental Assistant at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service which includes providing assistance to a dental specialist performing intra-oral procedures; charting or scheduling patient appointments; and operating dental x-ray equipment.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study in a dental assistant or dental hygiene program that included at least 24 semester hours of courses in radiation physics; radiation biology; radiation health, safety, and protection; X-ray films and radiographic film quality, radiographic techniques; darkroom and processing techniques; and film mounting. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education leading to a bachelors degree but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education beyond two years (total semester hours minus 60) by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
