Position Title
Interdisciplinary Physical Scientist Chemist Biologist
Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
Announcement Number
DTRA-26-12882952-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science
 C. 1320 - Chemistry


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Basic requirements established by the OPM Qualification Standards for the 1301/1320/0401 series positions. Please select the answer that best fits your situation.

 For Physical Scientist series 1301 - Degree: physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. (Must provide transcripts)
 For Physical Scientist series 1301 - Combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Must provide transcripts and experience clearly demonstrated in resume)
 For Chemist series 1320 - Degree: physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics. (Must provide transcripts)
 For Chemist series 1320 - Combination of education and experience -- course work equivalent to a major as shown in C above, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Must provide transcripts and experience clearly demonstrated in resume)
 For Biologist series 0401 - Degree: biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Must provide transcripts)
 For Biologist series 0401 - Combination of education and experience -- Courses equivalent to a major, as shown in E above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Must provide transcripts and experience clearly demonstrated in resume)
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for these series.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience for the Interdisciplinary Physical Scientist/Chemist/Biologist position, GS-1301/1320/0401-12/13. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.

 For the GS-12, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Specialized Experience is defined as: Utilizing scientific and technical expertise to identify, prevent, protect from, respond to, and recover from small and/or large-scale Chemical and Biological (C/B) threats or incidents; Providing guidance regarding emergency response and program capabilities, including experience in the use of and application of (C/B) detectors and detection theory to characterize C/B threat agents and optimize C/B response training, exercises, and incidents; Identifying C/B technological trends, to provide recommendations to a response organization, leadership, units, regarding C/B site exploitation planning and execution.
 For the GS-13, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Specialized Experience is defined as: Leading the coordination, analysis, and integration of conflicting activities and developing technical and programmatic strategies in a Science and Technology business area of emphasis; Utilizing scientific and technical expertise to senior officials and crisis response leaders to identify, prevent, protect from, respond to, and recover from small and/or large-scale Chemical and Biological (C/B) threats or incidents; Providing advice on a rapid basis even in the absence of complete information; Applying expert guidance, without supervision, regarding emergency response and program capabilities, including experience in the use of and application of (C/B) detectors and detection theory to characterize C/B threat agents and optimize C/B response training, exercises, and incidents; Identifying C/B technological and threat trends, to provide authoritative advice and recommendations to a response organization, leadership, units, regarding C/B site exploitation planning and execution.
 I don?t have the required specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙