Position Title
Supervisory Nurse (Supervisory Clinical Nurse)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
SCR-26-13069891 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
2.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


2.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


3.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


6.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ALL of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position.

A. Degree: A graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program is required. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

Degree from Foreign Nursing School: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.

AND

B. Licensure: Applicants must have passed the National Council Licensure Examination. In addition, they must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.

Do you meet ALL of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?

 Yes
 No


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST electronically upload college transcripts, license or registration documentation for verification at the time you apply.


2.
Based on the above statement, have you uploaded the required documentation as listed in the vacancy announcement under the Required Documentation section?

 Yes - I have uploaded the required documentation.
 No - I have not uploaded the required documentation AND I understand this will result in my application not receiving full consideration unless the required documentation is provided.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
In addition to the minimum education and license or registration, you must have specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-10 grade level, and/or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for the position?
 Yes
 No


This vacancy announcement is for a position that requires proof of license and educational transcript requirements. The educational transcript and license documentation will be utilized in the agency credential requirements process. Applicants must upload this information to be included with this vacancy in order to meet the minimum qualifications.


If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts and they MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include school name, student name and date awarded.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Supervisory Clinical Nurse position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.
You are the Supervisory Clinical Nurse on duty when a medical emergency occurs in the housing unit. An inmate has collapsed and is unresponsive with no pulse. Multiple staff members have responded to the scene, including newer nursing staff, correctional officers, and emergency response personnel. The physician on call is being contacted but has not yet arrived. You must coordinate the immediate response while managing the stress of the situation and ensuring all team members understand their roles. Additionally, you know this inmate has been identified as having violent tendencies and several other inmates are becoming agitated by the commotion.
Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?
 Provide basic information to the nursing staff about starting CPR while you wait for the physician to arrive and give specific instructions. Then briefly inform the correctional officers that the situation is under control.
 Immediately direct the nursing staff to initiate specific emergency protocols for cardiac arrest, clearly assign roles to each team member, coordinate with correctional staff to manage the agitated inmates, and verbally communicate assessment findings and interventions to the physician when contacted, while maintaining calm and authoritative presence throughout the emergency.
 Serve as a mentor to the newer nursing staff by explaining the proper emergency procedures step-by-step, then report the incident details to your supervisor and provide a brief explanation to the correctional officers about medical protocol.
 Give a detailed presentation to all staff present about cardiac arrest procedures and nursing conference standards, explain to the newer nurse why certain interventions are necessary, and document the verbal communications for future training purposes.
 None of the above.


2.
The Federal Bureau of Prisons Regional Office has requested a comprehensive analysis after a program review identified deficiencies in nursing care delivery on the evening shift. As Supervisory Clinical Nurse, you have been tasked with preparing documentation that will be used by the Warden, Clinical Director, and Regional Medical Officers to determine corrective actions. The report must include your investigation findings, root cause analysis, recommendations for additional resources, and a monitoring plan to ensure compliance going forward.
Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?
 Prepare a brief memorandum to the nursing staff providing written guidance on the deficiencies identified and instruction on how to correct the issues, and send a copy to your immediate supervisor for their records.
 Assist the Director of Nursing in drafting the response document by gathering information about the deficiencies and helping to compile the data using the general guidelines provided by the Regional Office.
 Independently research the identified deficiencies, analyze the evening shift nursing care delivery patterns, prepare a detailed technical report with evidence-based recommendations including justification for additional nursing positions, and develop a comprehensive monitoring and response plan that addresses each finding from the program review.
 Write a detailed award recommendation for staff who performed well during the review period and prepare routine correspondence to other departments informing them of the review results.
 None of the above.


3.
Your facility is implementing a new Bureau of Prisons clinical practice guideline for managing high-risk security inmates with chronic medical conditions who require frequent medical appointments outside their housing units. The existing nursing protocols don't fully address the intersection of medical care needs and enhanced security requirements for these particular inmates. Your nursing staff is requesting clarification on scheduling, escort procedures, treatment room protocols, and documentation requirements. The union has also raised questions about how this will affect current work schedules and overtime.
Which action represents the most effective and appropriate policy interpretation and application approach in this situation?
 Review the established work schedules carefully and make scheduling adjustments to accommodate the new appointments, then follow the recommendations that will eventually be made by the institution's policy work group when they meet next month.
 Participate actively in the facility's work group that is reviewing the new clinical practice guidelines, contribute to discussions about implementing the procedures, provide input on how treatment plans can remain congruent with correctional security needs, and help the group make scheduling recommendations.
 Ensure that your nursing staff complies with existing treatment plans for these inmates, interpret the current patient care procedures for your staff, and implement the administrative duties as outlined in the established policies until further guidance is provided.
 Independently develop and implement a new alternate work schedule that complies with both federal regulations and union collective bargaining agreement guidelines, create treatment protocols that integrate the medical care requirements with the enhanced security needs for high-risk inmates, and implement the new clinical practice guideline procedures for your nursing unit.
 None of the above.


4.
At 2:00 AM, you are the senior nursing supervisor on duty when a violent altercation erupts in one of the housing units resulting in multiple casualties. Initial reports indicate at least five inmates with varying injuries: one with a suspected stab wound to the chest showing signs of shock, one with a severe head injury and altered consciousness, one with multiple facial lacerations and a possible broken jaw, and two others with various cuts and bruises. Your nursing staff consists of two RNs and one LPN currently managing routine medication passes in other units. Correctional staff has secured the scene. The on-call physician is 20 minutes away, and the nearest hospital emergency room is 15 minutes by ambulance. You have limited ambulance availability and must coordinate with correctional services regarding security escorts.
Which action represents the most effective and appropriate emergency decision-making approach in this situation?
 Assess each patient's condition following established triage protocols, provide first aid to the injured inmates until the physician arrives, ensure the stab wound victim receives appropriate care, and obtain assistance from the on-call physician by phone to get recommendations for treatment priorities.
 Respond to the emergency and assume leadership by performing rapid triage assessment of all injured inmates, directing the less experienced LPN to begin treatment on the inmates with minor injuries, advising correctional staff on which patients need immediate hospital transport, and notifying the physician about the multiple trauma situation while you focus on the most critical patients.
 Independently assess and prioritize the multiple trauma victims based on severity and survival probability, immediately direct the RNs to begin life-saving interventions on the chest stab wound victim while you personally manage the head injury patient, notify the physician and specialists about the critical patients' conditions, coordinate with correctional services for security escorts and ambulance transport, and simultaneously direct the LPN to manage the remaining patients with less severe injuries while maintaining oversight of all care delivery throughout the emergency.
 Perform triage on the injured inmates, treat the inmate with heat-related symptoms first since that protocol is most familiar to your staff, direct one nurse to treat the facial lacerations, and make sure someone notifies the physician about the situation while you assess which inmates need further medical attention.
 None of the above.


5.
You are the Supervisory Clinical Nurse responsible for a team of seven nursing staff members including three RNs, two LPNs, and two CNAs. Over the past six months, you have noticed inconsistent performance across your team. Two of the RNs are experienced and highly competent, but one newly hired RN is struggling with correctional nursing procedures despite having strong clinical skills from a hospital background. One LPN has excellent technical skills but poor documentation habits, while the other LPN is reliable but needs development in critical thinking. The CNAs are competent but need clearer direction on priorities. Your department's last performance metrics showed room for improvement in patient care documentation, medication administration timeliness, and compliance with correctional protocols. You need to improve overall team performance while developing individual staff members.
Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?
 Appropriately delegate specific work assignments to each staff member based on their current skill level, serve as a resource person to the new RN specifically for correctional nursing procedures, and correct the documentation audit deviations identified in the LPN's work.
 Check each staff member's work in progress on a regular basis to ensure that deadlines for documentation and medication passes are being met, evaluate and document the special competencies that each employee demonstrates, and review the department's performance metrics monthly to identify where changes or improvements are needed.
 Develop a comprehensive orientation program specifically designed for nurses transitioning from hospital to correctional settings, implement a targeted professional development plan for each staff member addressing their individual performance gaps, establish regular performance monitoring with specific metrics, provide both group training on documentation standards and individual coaching sessions, and create accountability systems that motivate all seven staff members to comply with policies while fostering a culture where the team's overall work performance improves to a superior level.
 Organize a team meeting to discuss the performance metrics, plan out the weekly work assignments for your staff to ensure better coverage, and evaluate each employee's performance at their annual review to document areas needing improvement.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙