Position Title
DEFENSE TRAVEL ADMINISTRATOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12907204-AR-T32-026-023 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 10, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a member of the New Mexico Army National Guard?
You must be a member of the New Mexico Army National Guard to be eligible for this position.

 Yes
 No


2.
Please input your current military rank and MOS:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have an undergraduate or graduate education with a college degree education in one of -or- a combination of the following required disciplines: Accounting, business, finance, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organizational management?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have work experiences in the Defense Travel System (DTS), with the competencies to manage complex processes related to DTS?
 Yes
 No


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


5.
--Knowledge of the USPFO organization, mission, and functions. A thorough understanding of management, organization, and resources utilization and policies and principles.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


6.
--Knowledge of state ARNG and its supported organization, mission, functions, and applicable DOD and Federal regulations and rules for application to financial management systems and of transportation entitlements rules and procedures.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


7.
Skill and knowledge to communicate effectively, orally and in writing, to resolve difficult issues and/or problems, to provide advice and assistance on financial management and accounting matters relevant to DTS, to conduct training and briefings, as well as to exercise tact and diplomacy in all contacts with DFAS, PMO-DTS, major subordinate commands within the state, Directorate staff, and NGB.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


8.
--Knowledge of and the ability to use automated system software capabilities (i.e. excel, access) to review, report and process financial data as required.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


9.
--Skill and ability to maintain internal control procedures to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse which involve a review through internal checks to ensure compliance.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙