Position Title
License Practical Nurse
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-HQ-12950060-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Dec 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
Camp Verde, AZ
Chinle, AZ
Cibecue, AZ
Inscription House, AZ
Kayenta, AZ
Maricopa, AZ
McNary, AZ
Parker, AZ
Peach Springs, AZ
Phoenix, AZ
Pinon, AZ
Polacca, AZ
Red Mesa, AZ
Sacaton, AZ
Supai, AZ
Tsaile, AZ
Whiteriver, AZ
Davis, CA
Havasu Lake, CA
Hemet, CA
Riverside, CA
Winterhaven, CA
Towaoc, CO
Fort Hall, ID
Lawrence, KS
Mashpee, MA
Cass Lake, MN
Naytahwaush, MN
Ogema, MN
Ponemah, MN
Ponsford, MN
Red Lake, MN
Browning, MT
Winnebago, NE
Elko, NV
Moapa, NV
Wadsworth, NV
Acoma, NM
Albuquerque, NM
Bernalillo, NM
Bloomfield, NM
Cochiti Pueblo, NM
Crownpoint, NM
Cuba, NM
Dulce, NM
Espanola, NM
Mescalero, NM
San Felipe Pueblo, NM
San Fidel, NM
Sanostee, NM
Santa Ana Pueblo, NM
Santa Fe, NM
Shiprock, NM
Taos, NM
Thoreau, NM
Toadlena, NM
Zia Indian Reservation, NM
Zuni, NM
Lockport, NY
Manlius, NY
Cherokee, NC
Belcourt, ND
Cannon Ball, ND
Fort Yates, ND
Anadarko, OK
Carnegie, OK
Clinton, OK
El Reno, OK
Lawton, OK
Pawnee, OK
Watonga, OK
Wewoka, OK
Salem, OR
Warm Springs, OR
Rock Hill, SC
Bullhead, SD
Eagle Butte, SD
Fort Thompson, SD
Kyle, SD
Lower Brule, SD
Manderson, SD
Martin, SD
McLaughlin, SD
Mobridge, SD
Pine Ridge, SD
Rosebud, SD
Sisseton, SD
Wagner, SD
Wakpala, SD
Wanblee, SD
Fort Duchesne, UT
Aylett, VA
Charles City, VA
Indian Neck, VA
Madison Heights, VA
Providence Forge, VA
Richmond, VA
Suffolk, VA
Auburn, WA
Forks, WA
Nespelem, WA
Spokane, WA
Toppenish, WA
Wapato, WA
Wellpinit, WA
White Swan, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6


3.
Please select availablity.
 A. Full-time
 B. Part-time
 C. Intermittent (as needed basis)


4.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been arrested for or charged with certain crimes involving a child. Responding yes to this question can make you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere or guilty to certain crimes against persons or offenses committed against children. Responding yes to this question makes you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or guilty to, any felonious offense, or any two or more misdemeanor offenses under federal, state, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children?
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that (1) my responses to questions one and two are made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by fine under title 18 of the United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and (2) I have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted. I understand my right to obtain a copy of any criminal history report made available to the Indian Health Service and my right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Licensed Practical Nurse position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. SECTION I. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS AND FACTORS.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirements - Licensure
I have a current license to practice as practical or vocational nurse in a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia or I have applied for a license to practice.
 Yes
 No


2.
Minimum Qualification, GS-04, Practical Nurse
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements for this series, select one response below that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-04 level. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have 6 months of nursing experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience includes nursing care work in a hospital, outpatient clinic, nursing home, or other supervised medical, nursing, or patient care facility that provided a practical knowledge of human body structure and sterile techniques and procedures as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples include: Assist with basic nursing care tasks such as bathing, feeding, dressing, or transporting patients, measure and record vital signs and report changes in condition, assist with simple diagnostic or treatment procedures while maintaining sterile technique, and following infection control and safety policies.
 I have successfully completed a program in practical nursing of a least 9 months' duration combined with 1 year of nursing assistant experience.
 I have successfully completed a 2-year degree program in an accredited community college, junior college, or college or university in practical nursing.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


3.
Minimum Qualification, GS-05, Practical Nurse
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements for this series, select one response below that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-05 level. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have 1 year of nursing experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level performing basic nursing care under supervision in a hospital, clinic, or long-term care setting. Examples include: Observe, record, and report changes in patients’ behavior or physical condition, carry out nursing procedures in accordance with established guidelines and care plans, take vital signs, collect specimens, and maintain accurate documentation, set up and maintain medical equipment for procedures., assist physicians and Registered Nurses during examinations and treatments, and provide instructions to patients and families regarding care and follow-up activities.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


4.
Minimum Qualification, GS-06, Practical Nurse
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements for this series, select one response below that best describes your education, experience, or combination of education and experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-06 level. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have 1 year of nursing experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level performing a moderately difficult range of nursing care duties in a hospital, clinic, or similar setting. Examples include: Perform a range of treatment procedures such as insert catheters, administer immunizations, change sterile dressings, and provide wound care, administer medications safely and monitoring for therapeutic or adverse effects, recognize urgent and emergent situations and initiate appropriate emergency interventions, provide patient and family education on health maintenance, medication use, and disease management, assist physicians and RNs with complex procedures and specialized diagnostic tests, and serve as a preceptor or resource to less experienced staff and participate in quality improvement and training activities.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements


SECTION II. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Certification of Information Accuracy If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙