Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-13043700-26-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements for the position of GS-0601 Registered Respiratory Therapist.

Grandfathering Provision. The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all hybrid title 38 qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education, credential or certification requirements that apply to this occupation. All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series and performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education, credential or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:

(1)Employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure, certification or registration, may be reassigned, promoted or demoted within the occupation.

(2)Employees in an occupation that requires a licensure, certification or registration, may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the full performance level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.

(3)Employees in an occupation that requires a licensure, certification or registration only at higher grade levels must meet the licensure, certification or registration requirement before they can be promoted to those higher- grade levels.

(4)Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.

(5)Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure, certification or registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.

(6)If an employee who was retained in an occupation listed in38 U.S.C. § 7401(3) under this provision leaves that occupation or employment with the VA, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation and/or VA.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C.? 7403(f). Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: The VHA Registered Respiratory Therapists must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your education that qualifies you for this Registered Respiratory Therapist position. Your education must be documented in your transcripts provided.
 Yes, I have completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not qualify and will not be considered for this position


3.
NARRATIVE: Education Information: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.

Name of Academic Institution
Degree Earned
City and State
Month and Year conferred


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Licensure. Persons appointed or reassigned to Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Please provide a copy of your license.

Do you have a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a RRT?
 Yes
 No


5.
NARRATIVE: Licensure Information: Provide the following information regarding your licensure.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


6.
Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to Registered Respiratory Therapist positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT).

*Exception. Registered Therapist positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below:
(a)VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38U.S.C. § 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level.
(b)RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.
(c)RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.
(d)Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your credential that qualifies you for this Registered Respiratory Therapist position.
 Yes, I possess a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT. a valid, current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist.
 I am currently not credentialed but meet the exception rule. I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, am fully licensed by their state and working toward completion of their RRT credential.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not qualify and will not be considered for this position.


For GS-05, applicants must meet the basic requirements.

Education and Licensure. This level assignment is designated as temporary for individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, licensed by their state and are working towards obtaining RRT credential.


7.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-05 level.
 I possess the basic education, meet licensure requirements and credential requirements OR meet the exception rule OR meet the grandfathering provision.
 I do not qualify and will not be considered for this position.


For GS-07 Registered Respiratory Therapist, applicants must have:

Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i. Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
ii. Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
iii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
iv. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
v. Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.


8.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-07 level.
 I possess one-year experience equivalent to the GS-05, a license and a RRT Credential and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the position.
 I do not have the specialized experience and will not be considered for this position.


For GS-09, applicants must have:

Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential.i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level;ORi. A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i. Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
ii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
iii. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
iv. Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.


9.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-09 level.
 I possess one-year experience equivalent to the GS-07, a license and a RRT Credential and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the position.
 I possess a Master of Science degree in respiratory care, a license and a RRT Credential and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the position.
 I do not have the specialized experience and will not be considered for this position.


For GS-11, applicants must have:

Experience, Licensure and Credential.
i.One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
ii.Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i.Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
ii.Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
iii.Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.


10.
Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-11 level.
 I possess one-year experience equivalent to the GS-09, hold a active license and RRT credential and my resume demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the position.
 I do not have the specialized experience and will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙