Position Title
(Pathways Public Health Associates Program) - Public Health Advisor
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
CDC-PHIC-RG-26-12928365 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and a copy of the most current Performance Appraisal.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. (https://www.usajobs.gov/StudentsAndGrads)
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a (Pathways Public Health Associates Program) - Public Health Advisor position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your eligibility for Pathways Public Health Associates Program (PHAP) for Recent Graduates.

 I have completed, within the previous two (2) years, all educational requirements for a bachelor's or advanced degree from an accredited college or university.
 I am a veteran who, due to a military service obligation was precluded from applying to the Pathways Public Health Associates Program (PHAP) for Recent Graduates during a portion of the two (2) year eligibility period and I have completed my degree within the past (6) years.
 My intended graduation date, with a bachelor's or advanced degree, is no later than July 1, 2026.
 I am not a veteran and have completed all educational requirements for a degree, but not within the past two (2) years.
 I will complete all educational requirements for a degree, but not by July 1, 2026.
 None of the above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education that meets the Basic Requirements for Public Health Advisor, GS-0685-07.
 I have completed the undergraduate and/or graduate level education in any major field of study.
 I have the specialized experience that provides evidence of the following: Knowledge of organizational, operational, and programmatic concepts and practices applied by public, private, or nonprofit agencies and organizations engaged in public health or other health-related activities; Knowledge of the methods, processes, and techniques used to develop and deliver public health or health-related programs in State and local settings; Knowledge of a specialized public health program; Knowledge of, and skill in, the application of administrative or analytical methods and techniques necessary for working within the framework of a public health or related organization and carrying out specific program functions; and Skill in oral and written communications, gathering and conveying information, making oral presentations, and preparing reports, correspondence, and other written materials.
 I do not possess the education required.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience/education and meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Public Health Advisor, GS-0685-07.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 grade level, which included experience: 1. Researching public health issues, policies, and guidelines to support routine assignments; 2. Collaborating with partners or team members to assist in coordinating activities, sharing information, and identifying available resources; 3. Preparing agendas, presentations, and supplemental materials to support program discussions, and present information to diverse audiences.
 I have completed 1 year of graduate level education from an accredited college or university.
 I have a bachelor's degree that meets Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) criteria. S.A.A. is based on one of the following (1) Class Standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. (2) grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of (a.) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b.) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum., or (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society -- Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies.
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not possess the education requirement or specialized experience as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙