Position Title
DIETITIAN
Agency
Defense Commissary Agency
Announcement Number
DECA-26-12899248-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen-Outs
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes
 No


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or
experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements
completely before making your selection. ALL APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING
DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPOR THE BASIC REQUIREMENTS.
 A. I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Knowledge of advanced nutrition science and public health expertise to guide agency-wide wellness programs and initiatives, Interprets peer-reviewed research and emerging dietetic trends to develop evidence-based nutrition content and policy recommendations, Analyzes complex public health programs and coordinates with Department of War stakeholders to align wellness strategies, Manages large-scale nutrition and health programs by setting goals, monitoring outcomes, and improving processes, Designs public health marketing, menu planning, and nutrition education materials that support healthy food choices in commissaries, Maintains status as a Registered Dietitian, meeting all professional credentialing and continuing education requirements.
 B. I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I have a bachelors degree or higher in the fields of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or related science. The educational program must have been accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics)(ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For dietitian positions, the curriculum must have been in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (formerly American Dietetic Association (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation.
 Yes
 No


3.
I certify that I am a registered Dietitian.
 Yes
 No


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to respond to all questions may result in your disqualification for this position.


4.
Senior leadership requests an ROI analysis for the Dietitian Approved Thumb (DAT) program across Omni-channel campaigns. Which plan most credibly estimates causal impact at enterprise scale?
 Use a pre/post enterprise comparison of total sales and report percentage changes without modeling confounders
 Employ a matched difference-in-differences design with store-level covariates, seasonality controls, and hierarchical modeling to estimate treatment effects
 Correlate PESO engagement metrics with category sales and infer causality from strong associations
 Aggregate anecdotal stakeholder feedback and summarize qualitative themes as the primary evidence of ROI


5.
You're evaluating a PESO campaign promoting lean proteins and whole grains. Which outcome strategy best
demonstrates meaningful impact while reducing bias?

 Track impressions and likes, and interpret high engagement as evidence of behavior change
 Count store event attendance and assume participation predicts purchase behavior
 Compare weekly sales averages pre/post across all stores without stratification or adjustment
 Conduct an interrupted time series with segmented regression, linking PESO exposure to unit sales and basket composition while controlling for promotions and seasonality


6.
An industry partner proposes a shelf-tag pilot. What safeguard is essential to protect scientific integrity and
publication-level credibility?

 Establish independent governance with pre-registered methods, unbiased sampling, data access controls, conflict-of-interest disclosures, and an IRB determination
 Allow the partner to define success criteria, select high-visibility stores, and produce consolidated outcome reports 6
 Limit the pilot to top-performing locations to reduce variance and accelerate positive findings
 Classify the work as “program operations,” skip formal review, and rely on internal summaries for decision-making


7.
After a change to NGP technical criteria, you must brief quarterly results. Which reporting structure best supports
executive decisions and ongoing optimization?

 Provide an enterprise average with a short narrative to keep the message concise and positive
 Distribute raw store-level tables for transparency and let leaders interpret trends informally
 Use a standardized dashboard with stratified trends, uncertainty intervals, SPC signals, and action plans for outliers and subgroups
 Share selected success stories from stores and defer statistical analysis to year-end


8.
You must train DoD/DoW stakeholders to use the Healthy Living page and TOTB meal solutions to support readiness.
What approach best ensures adoption and sustained practice?

 Circulate tip sheets and encourage peer learning with optional follow-ups
 Host a single webinar, record it, and rely on voluntary viewing for reach
 Ask service dietitians to cascade training informally and share uptake anecdotes
 Implement a competency-based curriculum using role-specific scenarios, teach-back, workflow job aids, spaced reinforcement, and level-3/4 evaluation (behavior and outcomes)


9.
Public Affairs requests an executive brief on commissary contributions to readiness. Which strategy most effectively
communicates value to senior leaders?

 Present historical milestones, awards, and testimonials from store events
 Provide a literature overview with dense citations and technical methodology detail
 Link DAT/NGP outcomes and TOTB adoption to risk-adjusted sales and resilience proxies, using a logic model, concise visuals, and clear next-step decisions
 Focus on brand narrative and customer stories, supplemented by selected engagement metrics


10.
As final reviewing authority, you receive a draft newsletter that generalizes from a single small trial. What action
maintains credibility while meeting enterprise standards?

 Approve the draft because it cites primary research and appears relevant to shoppers
 Add a general disclaimer noting limited evidence and proceed to meet the calendar
 Require evidence grading (e.g., AND EAL/GRADE), confirm population fit, revise claims with qualifiers aligned to USDA/DHHS guidance, and document the review
 Reduce the claim to a brief bullet, add a recipe, and publish without further appraisal


11.
A new TOTB series targets shoppers with limited cooking skills. Which design choice most improves real-world skill
transfer and safe practice?

 Use stepwise recipes with visuals, time/cost cues, substitutions, literacy-appropriate formatting, and embedded prompts on label reading and food safety
 Publish long-form nutrition theory articles to build foundational knowledge before recipes
 Leverage celebrity endorsements and aspirational messaging to increase program appeal
 Advise shoppers to “cook more often” and link to external sites for general guidance


12.
A vendor proposes a fortified cereal claiming improved iron status in adults. Which biological consideration is most
critical before endorsement in NGP/DAT criteria?

 Packaging sustainability, shelf life, and broad consumer appeal across regions
 Flavor profile preferences, color additives, and current taste trends in cereal categories
 National advertising reach, social media engagement, and brand recognition among patrons
 Iron compound form and bioavailability (e.g., ferrous sulfate vs. ferric pyrophosphate), common inhibitors/enhancers (phytates, vitamin C), and population-specific risks (e.g., hemochromatosis)


13.
Healthy Living content must advise on omega-3s from seafood. Which guidance best aligns with accurate shopper
7
messaging and risk management?

 Emphasize plant ALA intake and omit conversion efficiency to EPA/DHA for simplicity
 Provide species-specific EPA/DHA estimates per serving, cardiometabolic benefits, ALA’s low conversion, and mercury considerations for high-risk groups
 Recommend all fish equally due to overall healthfulness, minimizing species differences
 Highlight high-mercury species for stronger flavor and perceived freshness in meals


14.
When defining DAT attributes for "nutrient-dense" items, which biological principle avoids misleading classifications
across categories?

 Apply a nutrient profiling model (e.g., energy-adjusted density), cap added sugars/sodium/saturated fat, and evaluate items within dietary pattern context
 Prioritize “natural” labels and minimize scrutiny of detailed macro/micro profiles
 Use calories per serving as the primary marker and avoid complex nutrient scoring
 Rank items by protein grams only without assessing fiber, fatty acid profile, or micronutrients


15.
Public Health Safety requests PESO content on deli items and Listeria risk. What messaging is most appropriate for
patrons?

 Note that refrigeration prevents bacterial growth, so standard storage is sufficient
 Advise all consumers to avoid deli meats, regardless of individual risk status
 Explain Listeria’s cold tolerance, identify high-risk groups, and include reheating to safe temps, storage time guidance, and cross-contamination prevention
 Recommend rinsing deli meats with water prior to consumption to reduce risk


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙