Position Title
Investigative Support Assistant
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12999730-26-FRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to ALL eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered for, we can ONLY verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation listed in the required documents section of the announcement.


1.
Are you a current employee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
 

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current EEOC employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service and has held a permanent (non-temporary) position in the competitive service at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Mobile, AL
 AD. Phoenix, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Fresno, CA
 AG. Los Angeles, CA
 AH. Oakland, CA
 AI. San Diego, CA
 AJ. San Francisco, CA
 AK. San Jose, CA
 AL. Denver, CO
 AM. Washington, DC
 AN. Miami, FL
 AO. Tampa, FL
 AP. Atlanta, GA
 AQ. Savannah, GA
 AR. Honolulu, HI
 AS. Chicago, IL
 AT. Indianapolis, IN
 AU. Kansas City, KS
 AV. Louisville, KY
 AW. New Orleans, LA
 AX. Baltimore, MD
 AY. Boston, MA
 AZ. Detroit, MI
 BA. Minneapolis, MN
 B. Jackson, MS
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Newark, NJ
 F. Albuquerque, NM
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. New York, NY
 I. Charlotte, NC
 J. Greensboro, NC
 K. Raleigh, NC
 L. Cincinnati, OH
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Oklahoma City, OK
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Pittsburgh, PA
 Q. San Juan, PR
 R. Greenville, SC
 S. Memphis, TN
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Dallas, TX
 V. El Paso, TX
 W. Houston, TX
 X. San Antonio, TX
 Y. Norfolk, VA
 Z. Richmond, VA
 AA. Seattle, WA
 AC. Milwaukee, WI


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).




 Yes
 No


4.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?


 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
GS-6 Minimum Qualifications:
Please indicate the response that determines how you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-6 position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service, which has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience includes: (1) assisting in the development of a variety of evidentiary materials surrounding charges; (2) securing needed information to process inquiries and charges of discrimination; (3) monitoring case development to follow-up with charging parties/complainants to secure additional information; (4) performing clerical and administrative support duties, such as receiving telephone calls and providing information; (5) proofreading materials for correct spelling, grammar, punctuations, and required format.
 I do not have the experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙