Position Title
Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12839005-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Wednesday, December 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Screen-out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) and I meet three of the five specialized experience listed. Specialized Experience is defined as: Collecting, normalizing, and analyzing cost data. Developing and applying appropriate cost estimating and analysis methodologies, utilizing techniques such as linear and non-linear regression to determine cost estimating relationships (CERs). Developing, updating, and maintaining cost models capable of providing timely, reliable cost estimates. Developing credible, accurate, comprehensive, and documented Life Cycle Cost Estimates (LCCEs), Program Office Estimates (POEs), and/or Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCEs). Preparing, presenting, and documenting cost estimates, cost analysis, cost studies, excursions, recommendations, and/or briefings to customers and stakeholders. Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


2.
I meet the following basic education requirements to qualify for the 1515 series.
 Degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 My education/experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙