Position Title
Supervisory Supply Manager - Unaccompanied Housing
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
KBNAF-2026-59 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


8.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 45 pounds.
 Yes
 No


9.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


11.
I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Supply Technician, NF-2005-03 position with the Unaccompanied Housing Department. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All claimed education and experience must be supported by resume and/or transcripts.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 2005 Series (Supply Clerical and Technician)
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience. Specialized experience includes but is not limited to; receiving, handling, dispersing and disposal of material; and knowledge of warehouse procedures and on-line data input and reporting.
 Successful completion of a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related duties. (Transcripts required)
 I have a combination of education, and at least 6 months of specialized experience. Note: only education beyond the first 60 semester hours is creditable, 30 semester hours of this education is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. (Transcripts required)
 I do not meet any of the above requirements.


2.
Please describe your experience using personal computers and Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Word, Excel, Outlook) in a work environment.

 I do not have documented experience using Microsoft Office applications.
 I have used Microsoft Office occasionally for basic tasks – but have less than 6 months documented experience (e.g., typing documents, reading email).
 I have six (6) months to two (2) years of documented experience using Microsoft Office to complete regular work tasks (e.g., creating documents, managing email, data entry).
 I have two (2) or more years of documented experience using Microsoft Office applications as a regular part of my job responsibilities.


3.
How many years of experience do you have applying basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations of customer service in a work setting?

 I possess no experience in customer service.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience in customer service.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience in customer service.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience in customer service.


4.
How many months of experience do you have in supervisory and management?
 I have one (1) or more years of experience in supervisory and management.
 I have 6 months to one (1) year of experience in supervisory and management.
 I have less than 6 months of experience in supervisory and management.
 I have no experience in supervisory and management.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙