Position Title
Lead Medical Records Technician (Coder)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12859556-26-JF Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 07, 2026 to Jan 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/ or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.


This section pertains to the basic requirements for Medical Records Technicians (Coder). You must meet the basic requirements based on creditable experience, education or an experience/ education combination. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript(s) for any education used to qualify for this position.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Medical Records Technician (Coder) work.

 I possess one (1) year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records. AND have either (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, or (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS
 I possess an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records) AND have either (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, or (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 I have completed an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed AND have either (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, or (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 I possess a combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a)Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b)Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder) AND have either (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC, or (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 My experience and/or education and certification is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes. I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No. I am not proficient in spoken and written English


This section pertains to the grade requirements for Lead Medical Records Technicians (Coder). You must meet the grade requirements based on creditable experience.


3.
Grade Requirements: GS-9, Lead MRT (Coder): Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-8 level. Examples of experience include: select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems; independently review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes; code all complicated and complex medical/specialty diseases processes, patient injuries, and all medical procedures in a wide range of ambulatory/inpatient settings and specialties; directly consult with the clinical staff for clarification of conflicting, incomplete, or ambiguous clinical data in the health record; abstract, assign, and sequence codes into encoder software to obtain correct diagnosis-related DRG, support medical necessity, resolve encoder edits, and ensure codes accurately reflect services rendered; review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports diagnostic and procedural codes assigned, and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature; query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process; enter and correct information that has been rejected, when necessary; correct any identified data errors or inconsistencies; ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled; and use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data.

 Yes
 No.


4.
Certification Requirements: GS-9, Lead MRT (Coder): Do you possess one of the following mastery level certifications through AHIMA or AAPC Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P), Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT), Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).

 Yes
 No.


Responses to the following questions are not required, however responses will be used to verify that you meet the KSA's if we are not able to easily ascertain the information in your resume. Your resume should provide demonstrated experience. Reiterated knowledge skills and abilities will not be qualifying. Narrative responses to explain tasks completed, accomplishments made, and/or specific instances where the skillset has been applied in work are recommended. In addition to the experience required, you must also meet the ALL of the demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities for the respective grade level.


5.
1. Ability to work with a team to provide technical guidance, plan, organize, and coordinate activities in order to effectively complete job duties of assignment, such as distributing workload, monitoring the status and progress of work, monitoring accuracy of work, etc.



6.
2. Advanced knowledge of current coding classification systems for the subspecialty being assigned (outpatient, inpatient, outpatient and inpatient combined) and the ability to research and solve complex questions related to coding conventions and guidelines in an accurate and timely manner.



7.
3. Ability to effectively communicate, both orally and in writing, in order to meet program objectives.



8.
4. Knowledge of training methods and the ability to provide training to new coding staff.



9.
5. Ability to collect and analyze data and present results in various formats, which may include presenting reports to various organizational levels.



10.
6. Leadership skills, including interpersonal relations and conflict resolution between employees, managers, and clinical staff.



Resume Reminder: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. Your resume must include the following for each job listed: 1) Job title and grade level/salary. In order to show that you meet the experience requirements, you must document grades you have held and how long you have held them; 2) Duties, examples for each work experience, examples of relevant experiences and accomplishments that prove you can perform the tasks at the level required for the job as stated. You must include enough detailed information to support your specialized experience 3) Month, day and year start/end dates (e.g. 04/02/2019 to 04/13/2020); 4) Hours worked per week for all jobs listed. 5) Full Name and address of Employer 6) Name of Supervisor or Contact name 7) Complete phone number of Supervisor/Contact. To credit experience, you must provide demonstrated experience. Reiterated knowledge skills and abilities will not be qualifying. Narrative responses to explain tasks completed, accomplishments made, and/or specific instances where the skillset has been applied in work are recommended in the assessment questionnaire. Errors or omissions may affect consideration for employment.


Eligibility documentation reminder - Federal Employees MUST submit proper documentation that identifies their eligibility to apply for this position. The Documentation is a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade.


INSTRUCTIONS: AHIMA or AAPC Certification - Provide a copy of your valid and current certification to include your ID or certificate number. Reminder acceptable certifications are Certified Coding Associate (CCA), Certified Professional Coder-Apprentice (CPC-A), Certified Outpatient Coding-Apprentice (COC-A), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P), Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT), Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC), Clinical Documentation Improvement Practitioner (CDIP), or Certified Clinical Documentation Specialist. Must provide a copy of your active and current AHIMA or AAPC certification which includes membership or certificate number. Failure to provide required certification will deem your application incomplete and it will not be considered further.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙