Position Title
Legal Assistant (OA)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCNA-26-12926348-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 W. Phoenix, AZ
 X. Lake Forest, CA
 Y. Los Angeles, CA
 Z. Sacramento, CA
 AA. San Diego, CA
 AB. San Francisco, CA
 AC. San Jose, CA
 AD. Denver, CO
 AE. East Hartford, CT
 AF. Washington, DC
 AG. Jacksonville, FL
 AH. Miami, FL
 AI. Plantation, FL
 AJ. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AK. Atlanta, GA
 AL. Honolulu, HI
 AM. Chicago, IL
 AN. Indianapolis, IN
 AO. Louisville, KY
 AP. New Orleans, LA
 AQ. Baltimore, MD
 AR. Boston, MA
 AS. Detroit, MI
 AT. Saint Paul, MN
 AU. Kansas City, MO
 B. Saint Louis, MO
 C. Las Vegas, NV
 D. Newark, NJ
 E. Buffalo, NY
 F. New York, NY
 G. Westbury, NY
 H. Greensboro, NC
 I. Cincinnati, OH
 J. Cleveland, OH
 K. Oklahoma City, OK
 L. Portland, OR
 M. Philadelphia, PA
 N. Pittsburgh, PA
 O. Nashville, TN
 P. Austin, TX
 Q. Farmers Branch, TX
 R. Houston, TX
 S. Salt Lake City, UT
 T. Richmond, VA
 U. Seattle, WA
 V. Milwaukee, WI


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


3.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Legal Assistant (Office Automation) position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Legal Assistant (Office Automation) at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires a qualified typist. A qualified typist can type 40 words per minute based on a 5 minute sample with three or fewer errors. Are you a qualified typist?

 Yes
 No


3.
Select the statement that best reflects your knowledge of Chief Counsel organizational structure and programs, as well as functions of the various legal Divisions.

 I have over five years of experience providing litigation support for Chief Counsel Field Legal Divisions.
 I have over five years prior work experience providing litigation support.
 I have less than three years of experience providing litigation support.
 I have litigation support education and training but have not performed such tasks on the job.
 I do not have experience providing litigation support.
 I do not have any experience described.


4.
Which of the following activities have you performed that required knowledge of legal support procedures? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have reviewed incoming legal correspondence and routed it to the appropriate person/attorney for action.
 B. I have monitored due dates and deadlines on pending case actions and followed up to ensure timely completion.
 C. I have formatted legal documents such as answers, motions, decisions, settlement memorandums, subpoenas, etc.
 D. I have examined case documents to determine if procedural requirements have been met.
 E. I have analyzed reports produced from legal case tracking databases.
 F. I have assisted attorneys at trial calendar sessions (for example, taking notes, recording due dates ordered by the judge, recording case disposition, etc.).
 G. I do not have any experience described.


5.
Which types of legal documents you have created and formatted in Microsoft Word (or other word processing software) in accordance with legal office procedures and guidelines. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Answers.
 B. Motions.
 C. Trial Preparation (Discovery).
 D. Stipulation of Facts/Exhibits.
 E. Status Reports.
 F. Settlement Memorandums.
 G. Briefs.
 H. Trial Memorandums.
 I. Decisions.
 J. Subpoenas.
 K. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my efforts in creating and formatting legal documents in accordance with legal office procedures and guidelines.
 L. I do not have any experience described.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in performing research, analyzing case files and reference materials, and providing information to attorneys or other professionals for their use in interpreting statutes, regulations, and/or policies.

 I have over three years of experience performing legal research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have one to three years of experience performing legal research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have less than one year of experience performing legal research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have not performed this task for attorneys or other professionals, but I have performed legal research and analyzed case files in a classroom.
 I have not performed legal research or analyzed case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I do not have any experience described.


7.
Select the research software applications and tools you have experience using on a regular basis.

 A. ACDS.
 B. IDRS.
 C. EUP-TDS.
 D. BNA - Tax Portfolios.
 E. LEXIS/NEXIS.
 F. Westlaw.
 G. I do not have any experience described.


8.
Which of the following database systems and software applications do you have experience using on a regular basis? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 B. Microsoft Access or other database software.
 C. APOLLO.
 D. TL-CATS.
 E. CASE-CT.
 F. CASE-GL.
 G. TECHMIS.
 H. CASE-TR.
 I. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my efforts in using software applications.
 J. I do not have any experience described.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience examining and analyzing legal documents to determine appropriate action for entering data into an automated tracking/recordkeeping system in accordance with local office policies and procedures.

 I do not have any experience described.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have independently performed this task as a regular part of the job and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 In addition to independently performing this task as a regular part of my job, I have supervised, trained, and am consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


10.
Which of the following verbal communication tasks have you performed on the job? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have prepared training presentations in Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Word, or other presentation software.
 B. I have prepared Outlines of training content.
 C. I have developed formal Standard Operating Procedures.
 D. I have developed Desk Guides/Job Aides.
 E. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my knowledge and demonstrated skill in this competency.
 F. I do not have any experience described.


11.
Which of the following activities related to information technology support have you performed? (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have conducted formal training for others in the use of the local area network (LAN) system.
 B. I have provided training for others in the use of litigation support tools like SharePoint collaboration and/or workflow sites.
 C. I have processed requests to establish LAN accounts for new employees.
 D. I have setup IT equipment for new hires.
 E. I have accepted and/or shipped IT equipment for data backup purposes.
 F. I have not performed any of the above listed tasks.


12.
Which of the following software applications do you have experience using on a regular basis? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Adobe Acrobat.
 B. Microsoft Outlook or other email software.
 C. Microsoft Word or other word processing software.
 D. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 E. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 F. Microsoft Publisher or other publishing software.
 G. Microsoft Access or other database software.
 H. SharePoint.
 I. Clearwell.
 J. Concordance.
 K. Relativity.
 L. LAW - Legal Access Ware.
 M. I do not have any experience described.


13.
Which of the following programs or functions you have used to create or revise legal documents. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have used the Macros function in Microsoft Word to create documents.
 B. I have used Microsoft Word or other word processing software to type, format, and revise legal documents.
 C. I have created and edited spreadsheets using Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 D. I have created and edited presentations using Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 E. I have used Adobe Acrobat to redact documents.
 F. I have scanned and saved documents using PDF and/or TIFF format.
 G. I do not have any experience described.


14.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience with Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I have opened, edited, saved, and printed a spreadsheet.
 I have created, formatted, and printed a spreadsheet utilizing standardized forms in Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I have performed all of the tasks above in addition to using functions and formulas in Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I do not have any experience described.


15.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙