Position Title
Supervisory Biologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12933022-26-EKO Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 14, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


To qualify for this position, you must meet one of the following Basic Requirements as well as the additional qualification requirements.


1.
Basic Requirement Education: Have you successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college leading to a bachelor's degree or higher in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the work of this Supervisory Biologist position? (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)

 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement Combination Education and Experience: Do you possess a combination of education that included a major field of study or specific course work in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional education that demonstrates possession of the appropriate knowledge, skills and abilities required to perform the work of this Supervisory Biologist position? (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)

 Yes
 No


In addition to meeting the Basic Requirement above, you must also meet one of the following additional education and/or experience requirements. Select the statement below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the specific qualification requirements for this position at the GS-11 grade level.


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Do you possess one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this position? To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes performing work within a research laboratory; providing key expertise for the development and implementation of research safety training; preparing responses to research compliance inspections; and managing research equipment. (To be creditable, experience must be clearly detailed in your resume.) A full year of work is considered to be 35-40 hours of work per week. Part-time experience will be credited on the basis of time actually spent in appropriate activities. Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

 Yes
 No


4.
SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: Have you successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resources management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the work of this Supervisory Biologist position? One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered an academic year of graduate study. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)

 Yes
 No


5.
COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: Do you possess an equivalent combination of successfully completed related graduate level education and specialized experience as described above, to meet the total experience requirements for this position at the GS-11 level? (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)

 Yes
 No


Veteran's Preference Documentation Reminder - To receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicants claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


1.
Task: Exercises full technical and administrative supervisory direction over Research Laboratory staff

When multiple labs face competing deadlines and limited shared resources, which action most demonstrates full technical and administrative supervisory direction?

 Provide broad guidance to principal investigators (PIs) but leave task assignment to lab staff.
 Ask senior technicians to “self-organize” and report outcomes later.
 Plan and assign work across labs; set short-term priorities; align staff to tasks based on capability and safety requirements; and monitor progress.
 Avoid intervening so labs can compete for resources independently.


2.
Task: Develops performance standards and evaluates work performance of subordinates

Mid-year, research requirements shift and safety rules are updated. What should a supervisor do with performance standards?

 Use informal peer feedback in place of established standards.
 Revise standards to remain measurable, attainable, and aligned with mission and safety requirements; communicate changes; and evaluate against the updated standards.
 Keep existing standards but add a memo describing new expectations.
 Base ratings primarily on tenure and general attitude.


3.
Task: Provides advice, counsel, and instruction to employees on both work and administrative matters

A technician repeatedly bypasses a required safety step. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?

 Send the technician an email quoting policy without discussion.
 Ask the PI to handle the discussion informally.
 Ignore the behavior unless an incident occurs.
 Conduct a coaching session; clarify expectations; provide job aids and retraining; and set follow-up checkpoints.


4.
Task: Develops and provides advanced level training to staff

You are rolling out advanced training on safe operation of biosafety cabinets and compliant hazardous-waste handling. What approach best meets the requirement?

 Design role-specific modules with demonstrations, scenario practice, and competency assessments; document completion and proficiency.
 Offer a single lecture covering all topics without practice.
 Distribute slides and request staff to read them.
 Link to an online video and assume competency.


5.
Task: Acts as approving official for time and leave

Several staff request leave during a week with scheduled inspections. What is the appropriate action?

 Approve every request without review.
 Approve if coverage and mission needs are met; adjust schedules as needed; document decisions in the time/leave system.
 Approve but reduce all lab hours to balance workload.
 Deny all leave due to inspections, regardless of coverage.


6.
Task: Oversees the onboarding process for new employees

A new Biological Science Technician starts next week. What should onboarding include to meet supervisory responsibilities?

 Informal shadowing with a senior tech for the first day only.
 The PI provides a quick overview and sets them to work immediately.
 Comprehensive orientation on duties, local safety policies/procedures, security/access, and job-specific training with documentation.
 Delay onboarding until the next quarterly training cycle.


Read each question and select the single best answer.


7.
Task: Manages research equipment including performing annual inventory and advising research staff on acquisition policies and procedures

During annual inventory, you find several instruments missing current certification tags and inconsistent records. What should you do?

 Reconcile records; tag and schedule required service/certification; and advise requesters on policy-compliant acquisition and maintenance.
 Note discrepancies for next year’s inventory.
 Ask each lab to handle its own tagging without central review.
 Ignore missing tags if the instruments appear functional.


8.
Task: Facilitates purchase and maintenance of common/core equipment

A shared instrument is proposed for multiple labs. Which review best fulfills your role?

 Approve because the request comes from a senior PI.
 Purchase immediately without considering upkeep.
 Assess space, safety and utility requirements, projected utilization, budget, service/maintenance plan, and equitable access.
 Choose the lowest-cost vendor to maximize savings.


9.
Task: Manages Equipment Monitoring System

The equipment monitoring system flags an ultra-low freezer at out-of-range temperature. What is your first, best step?

 Silence the alarm and check again later.
 Disable monitoring to prevent nuisance alarms.
 Wait for a second alert to confirm.
 Investigate the alert; verify sensor accuracy and unit status; protect contents; and notify HVAC/Engineering if service is needed.


10.
Task: Coordinates Annual Emergency Drills (Chemical, Biological and Security)

How should you manage annual emergency drills to meet requirements?

 Conduct an informal demonstration without documentation.
 Plan and conduct drills with stakeholders; capture performance and corrective actions; and report outcomes to the appropriate committee.
 Email a scenario and ask staff to reply with ideas.
 Skip drills if the labs are busy.


11.
Task: Coordinates required monitoring with the Facility Safety Office

The Facility Safety Office schedules vapor monitoring and decibel readings in research areas. What is your role?

 Coordinate schedules and access; ensure results are documented and communicated; and integrate follow-up actions.
 Have lab techs perform their own informal measurements.
 Cancel monitoring due to workload.
 Ask PIs to self-monitor and report if issues arise.


Read each question and select the single best answer.


12.
Task: Decommissions research labs

A lab is closing. Which process best ensures compliant decommissioning?

 Provide a decommissioning checklist; oversee chemical disposal, equipment redistribution, decontamination; and verify completion before release.
 Ask the PI to clean the space and turn in keys.
 Lock the room and schedule future review.
 Request Custodial Services to handle all lab-specific tasks.


13.
Task: Serves as Voting member of Sub-committee on Research Safety and Security (SRSS)

While reviewing a Research Protocol Safety Survey (RPSS) amendment, what is your responsibility as a voting member?

 Allow protocol changes without committee review.
 Independently evaluate safety/security compliance, participate in deliberations, cast a vote, and document the committee’s decision and conditions.
 Vote according to your supervisor’s stated preference.
 Abstain unless the PI attends the meeting.


14.
Task: Addresses Facility Environment of Care (EOC) Rounds inspection results

EOC Rounds identify blocked egress and improper chemical storage in a lab. What should you do?

 Warn the lab verbally and move on.
 File the report and revisit at year-end.
 Ignore minor issues to avoid disruption.
 Submit service requests; coordinate corrective actions with the PI; track closure; and report status at the next SRSS meeting.


15.
Task: Monitors research area access to ensure it is restricted to authorized personnel

Two staff separated last week; their PIV access remains active. What is the correct action?

 Maintain access to avoid inconveniencing the team.
 Remind the PI to collect badges at their discretion.
 Immediately remove electronic access; update key inventory; and document changes in the access system.
 Wait for the quarterly access audit.


16.
Task: Coordinates Hazardous Waste/Material Pick-ups

You plan a chemical waste pick-up. Which step is required?

 Neutralize solutions and dispose through sinks.
 Store all waste indefinitely in the lab.
 Ask technicians to drop containers at the loading dock.
 Compile an inventory with Safety Data Sheets (SDS); coordinate with EMS, Safety Office, and the contractor for compliant pickup and manifesting.


17.
Task: Investigates or assists investigators in investigating accidents/mishaps

A minor incident occurred with property damage. What is your responsibility?

 Take no action if there were no injuries.
 Secure the area; obtain witness statements; document circumstances, injuries, and damage; estimate costs; and recommend corrective actions.
 Send a brief email summary to the PI.
 Let the lab self-investigate without oversight.


18.
Task: Provides principal investigators and supervisors with information on a variety of safety and occupational health subjects
A PI is starting a project with combined biological and chemical hazards. What is the best action?

 Advise the PI to avoid the project.
 Share a general safety handbook without lab-specific context.
 Provide tailored guidance on biosafety/chemical hygiene and materials to develop lab-specific SOPs; ensure training and controls are in place.
 Require the PI to locate guidance independently.


19.
Task: Demonstrates knowledge of conduct of research science using biological pathogens, hazardous chemicals, laboratory gases, and use of radioisotopes or radiation producing machines in the laboratory setting, and laboratory organization and/or construction

Which integrated control set best demonstrates required knowledge across these hazards?

 Conduct risk assessments; use biosafety cabinets and fume hoods; store flammables properly; maintain gas cylinder restraints; apply shielding/dosimetry for radiation; and ensure role-specific training and SOPs.
 Limit work to daytime hours to reduce risk.
 Rely primarily on PPE and warning signs in each lab.
 Proceed without special controls if experienced staff are present.


Read each question and select the single best answer.


20.
Task: Coordinates laboratory moves with other hospital services

A research group must relocate to a renovated space. How should you coordinate the move?

 Ask staff to move everything after hours to minimize disruption.
 Move equipment only and address chemicals after the move.
 Leave decisions entirely to the PI.
 Lead coordination with Engineering and the Facility Safety Office; engage approved vendors; inventory assets; and manage chain-of-custody for hazardous materials.


21.
Task: Assists the Research Service to prepare responses to compliance inspections

Following an external inspection with findings, what is your role?

 Take no action unless directed.
 Compile a corrective-action plan; provide evidence and timelines; coordinate responsible parties; and submit an organized response package.
 Dispute all findings without review.
 Send an informal apology and promise improvements later.


22.
Task: Provides for or presents individualized safety training for employees

What approach best fulfills the requirement for individualized safety training?

 Design job-specific training with practical exercises and competency checks; document attendance and progress for compliance.
 Offer annual general safety training only.
 Email updated policies and assume understanding.
 Defer training to the PI for each lab.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙