Position Title
Maintenance Worker (Seasonal) (FUL)
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYO-26-13064431-FUL-MER Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 35 miles from the job announcement location.

Location: 4455 Audubon Ave, De Leon Springs, FL

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Temporary NTE 1039 Hours Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07.


ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF A MAINTENANCE WORKER, WG-4749-7 WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT).


1.
Select the one that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Maintenance Worker position. You must show that you meet the experience described below. Make sure your resume supports your response. (SCREEN OUT) MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION OR YOUR SCORE MAY BE LOWERED.
 I am able to independently perform the duties of a Maintenance Worker with little supervision. Examples of this experience may include: 1) operate a variety of heavy equipment (e.g., agricultural tractor with implements, excavator, wheeled loader, skid steer, backhoe, road grader, bulldozer, dump truck, etc.) in close quarters or challenging field conditions as required; 2) tune-up, adjust and repair vehicles, heavy equipment and building systems (e.g., heating, refrigeration, HVAC, etc.); and 3) use electrical, mechanical, carpentry, plumbing, welding, painting, or other trades skills to maintain, repair or construct a variety of buildings, structures, systems or equipment.
 I am able to independently perform the duties of a Maintenance Worker under normal supervision. Examples of this experience may include: 1) operating heavy equipment such as agricultural tractors with implements, excavators, wheeled loaders, skid steers, backhoes, road graders, dump trucks, etc. in routine field conditions; 2) tuning up, maintaining and adjusting vehicles, heavy equipment and building systems; and 3) performing general maintenance tasks (e.g., welding, wiring, plumbing, carpentry, flooring, painting, or other trades) to maintain the repair and operation of an organization's buildings, equipment and facilities. I independently performed the duties described above under normal supervision.
 I am able to independently perform most of the duties a Maintenance Worker under normal supervision. Examples of this experience may include: 1) tuning up and maintaining vehicles and heavy equipment and troubleshooting problems in building systems; 2) operating heavy equipment to accomplish outdoor work duties in standard field conditions and in situations without complicating factors; and 3) performing general maintenance tasks on buildings or facilities that include work in the welding, electrical, plumbing, carpentry or other trades.
 I have performed the types of duties described above in responses A, B or C, under close supervision and would require more than normal supervision to perform them. Or, I have performed the duties described in A, B, or C in the past, but don't describe this work and level of supervision in my resume.
 I have not performed the Maintenance Worker duties as described above.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001), my eligibilties may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFT part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙