Position Title
Cemetery Caretaker Supervisor (Temporary)
Agency
National Cemetery Administration
Announcement Number
RP-26-RMW-12844907-805 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, December 4, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


1.
I possess the ability to supervise Cemetery Caretakers and other assigned cemetery employees in performing interments, grounds maintenance, and maintenance of vehicles/equipment.
 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires possession of a valid state driver's license. Do you have a valid state driver's license?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙