Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13055486-26-DRD Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected, but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


1.
Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education

(1) Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records.
OR,
(2) Education. An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records);
OR,
(3) Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed;
OR,
(4) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:
(a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical 4 terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses.
(b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder)

Do you possess the required Education/ Experience as described above?
 Yes, I possess the required ene year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient).
 Yes, I possess at least 2 years of education above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours directly related to MRT work. (Transcript required)
 Yes, I possess an equivalent combination of experience and education. (Transcript required)
 No, but I mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement or Clinical experience such as RN, M.D., or DO, and one year of experience in?clinical documentation improvement.
 No, I do not possess the experience or education requirements as noted above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certifications:
Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:

(1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

NOTE: Mastery level certification is required for all positions above the journey level; however, for clinical documentation improvement specialist assignments, a clinical documentation improvement certification may be substituted for a mastery level certification.

Do you possesses the following?

 Yes
 No


4.
Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS-Outpatient), GS-9

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient);
OR,
An associate's degree or higher and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records);
OR,
Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement;

NOTE: See the definitions section of this standard (paragraph 2g above) for a detailed definition of mastery level certification.

OR,
Clinical experience, such as Registered Nurse (RN), Medical Doctor (M.D.), or Doctor of Osteopathy (DO), and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvementCertification. Employees at this level must have either a mastery level certification or a Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification.

NOTE: See the definitions section of this standard (paragraph 2g and 2h) for a detailed definition of mastery level certification and clinical documentation improvement certification.For the GS-09,
Do you have one year experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of a GS-08 with a Mastery level Certification?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER Your resume must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)


DOCUMENT REMINDER Application: VA Form 10-2850c (Application for Associated Health Occupations) is required for all applicants to be considered. SF-50: A SF-50 should be submitted if you are a current VA/Federal employee. This is can obtained by going into your eOPF. To get into your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) follow these instructions: ?Go to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/ ? If you don't know your username, click "Forgot Username" & answer the verification questions. Your username will be sent to your VA email (usually within a few minutes). ? If you don't know your password, click "Forgot Password" after you have obtained your username & answer the verification questions. You will be emailed a temporary password that must be changed when you log in for the first time. Be sure to remember this password for future log-ins. NOTE: You will need your username in order to obtain/rest your password; so you must get the username first. Transcripts: Provide a legible copy of your transcripts for any claimed education if you are using education as the basis to qualify for this position. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents. FAILURE TO SUBMIT THE APPROPRIATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS WILL CAUSE YOU TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR CONISDERATION OF THIS POSITION. You will not be able to submit documents after the closing date of this announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙