Position Title
Reactor Engineer (Examiner Qualified)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12955668-26-EM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Arlington, TX


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 C. 0840 - Nuclear Engineering
 D. 0850 - Electrical Engineering
 E. 1301 - General Physical Science


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


4.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Qualification
1.
Are you a qualified NRC operator licensing examiner?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this engineering position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience qualifying for this position. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. 2. Written Test -- I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in answer choice A. or 4. Related curriculum -- I completed curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field AND I have at least one year of professional engineering experience.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your education and experience to perform duties in the 1301 Physical Science series.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience, or additional education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙