Position Title
Wood Worker
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADist-26-13033147-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position. YOU CAN ONLY SELECT ONE RESPONSE. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN YOU BEING RATED INELIGIBLE.
 I independently perform the more complex duties, such as Plans and constructs custom cut, wooden boxes, crates, skids, and bracing structures, Develops, improvises, and modifies complex and critical construction plans, patterns, jigs, and sequences to incorporate irregular shapes and non-standard features into the end product, takes into account destination, mode of transportation, handling and constructs appropriate box, skid or crate using woodworking tools to measure, cut and manufacture shipping containers that require critical fitted blocking, bracing, cradles, yokes, collars, or other supports necessary to provide appropriate support and protection.
 I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled on my own initiative and receive help from my supervisor on more complex duties, Plans and constructs custom cut, wooden boxes, crates, skids, and bracing structures, Develops, improvises, and modifies complex and critical construction plans, patterns, jigs, and sequences to incorporate irregular shapes and non-standard features into the end product, takes into account destination, mode of transportation, handling and constructs appropriate box, skid or crate using woodworking tools to measure, cut and manufacture shipping containers that require critical fitted blocking, bracing, cradles, yokes, collars, or other supports necessary to provide appropriate support and protection.
 I perform the common tasks of the job to be filled but under close supervision, such as Packs materials and equipment in standard or non-standard boxes or crates using proper wrappings, liners, cradles, chocks, yokes collars, cushioning, or other protective devices in accordance with proper packing procedures, Prepares packing lists, completes shipping documents, and stencils or labels identifying shipping and handling instructions on shipping container.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙