Position Title
Auditor (Recent Graduate)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-DE-26-13014202 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you wish to be considered under the Priority Reemployment List (PRL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the excepted service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the excepted service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former excepted service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 J. Little Rock, AR
 K. Monterey Park, CA
 L. Sacramento, CA
 M. San Diego, CA
 N. San Francisco, CA
 O. Denver, CO
 P. Jacksonville, FL
 Q. Miami, FL
 R. Tallahassee, FL
 S. Atlanta, GA
 T. Chicago, IL
 U. Springfield, IL
 V. Indianapolis, IN
 W. Des Moines, IA
 X. Baton Rouge, LA
 Y. Boston, MA
 Z. Saint Paul, MN
 AA. Jefferson City, MO
 AB. Kansas City, MO
 AC. Omaha, NE
 AD. Trenton, NJ
 AE. Albany, NY
 AF. New York, NY
 AG. Raleigh, NC
 AH. Columbus, OH
 B. Oklahoma City, OK
 C. Philadelphia, PA
 D. San Juan, PR
 E. Columbia, SC
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Dallas, TX
 H. Seattle, WA
 I. Madison, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Choose the one response below that best describes how you meet the eligibility, individual occupational requirements, and specialized experience requirements for the Auditor (Recent Graduate), GS-0511-07/09 position.


1.
This position is open to Recent Graduates.  Choose the response below which best describes how you meet this eligibility.
 I am a recent graduate who has completed within the previous two years a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution. (Applicants who are expected to meet this requirement within 90 days of the closing date of this vacancy announcement may apply.)
 I am a veteran who has completed within the previous 6 years a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution and I was precluded from applying within two years due to a military service obligation. Documentation supporting this claim must be provided with your application package. (Applicants who are expected to meet this requirement within 90 days of the closing date of this vacancy announcement may apply.)
 I do not meet the Recent Graduate requirements above.


2.
Please enter the name of the school you attended, your field of study, and the date your degree was awarded or your expected graduation date.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one that best describes your education and/or experience.
 I have a degree in accounting or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing." Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor") You must submit an unofficial copy of your transcript to support your response.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. In addition, I have one of the following: • Twenty-four (24) semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; • A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or • Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement, and I have (a) successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that I have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in option A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not possess the education or combination of education and experience requirements described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select the one that best describes your experience as related to the minimum qualification requirements for GS-0511-07, Auditor position.
 I have 1 year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement. One year of graduate education is generally 18 semester hours. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts if qualifying based on education. [Superior academic achievement must have been gained in curriculum that is qualifying for this position. To be eligible you must meet one of the following: received a grade point average of 3.0 or higher (on a 4.0 scale) for all undergraduate coursework or courses completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; received a grade point average of 3.5 or higher (on a 4.0 scale) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; have a class standing in the upper one-third of your graduating class, college, university, or major subdivision; or have membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies]
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which provided me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate experience (1) making recommendations concerning changes to accounting procedures; (2) preparing charts, tables, graphs, and other exhibits to aid in audit findings; and (3) communicating with team members concerning audit assignments
 I have a combination of graduate education as described in "A" and specialized experience as described in "B" above. To combine education and experience, determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level. Then determine your education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level. Finally, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts if qualifying based on education.
 I do not possess the education or combination of education and experience described above.


5.
From the descriptions below, select the one that best describes your experience as related to the minimum qualification requirements for GS-0511-09, Auditor position.
 I have 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree. (One year of graduate education is generally 18 semester hours). You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts if qualifying based on education.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which provided the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate experience (1) performing pre-audit research and organizing background material pertaining directly to the auditee, organization, program activity to be audited; (2) preparing charts, tables, graphs, and other exhibits to aid in audit findings; and (3) serving as a team member, attending and participating in entrance and exit conferences with auditee, auditee staff, and program staff.
 I have a combination of graduate level education as described in A above and specialized experience as described in B above which can be combined to equal one year. To compute this, first determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required under letter A above. (For example, 6 months of professional experience equals 50% of the experience requirement.) Then, determine your graduate education as a percentage of the education required under B above. (For example, 9 semester hours of creditable graduate work equals 50% of the education required.) Add the two percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. The first 18 semester hours of graduate education may not be credited towards specialized experience. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts if any part of qualifications is based on education.
 I do not possess the education or combination of education and experience described above.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731 ). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙