Position Title
HR SPECIALIST (PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13006120-T5-26-506 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Aug 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
What status/category applicant are you for this advertisement?
 I am CAT 1; Current permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 5 employee of the MT Army/Air National Guard. (Veterans Preference does not apply).
 I am CAT 2; Current permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 32 Employee of the MT Army/Air National Guard. (Veterans Preference does not apply).
 I am CAT 3; Term (Tenure 3) or NTE (Tenure 0) Title 5 Employee of the MT Army/Air National Guard. (Veterans Preference does not apply).
 I am CAT 4; Indefinite (Tenure 3) or NTE (Tenure 0) Title 32 technician of the MT Army/Air National Guard. (Veterans Preference does not apply).
 I am CAT 5; Current or Former military member of the MT Army/Air National Guard. (Veterans Preference does not apply). (Requires NGB 22/22A, DD214, or other proof of MT NG membership).
 I am CAT 6; Current or Re-employable Federal Employee. (Requires copy of most recent SF50; previous Federal employees must submit SF50 showing career competitive status)
 I do not fall into any of the listed categories.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level, that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Experience factors that encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoW, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force. *(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position, if using experience to qualify)

or

B) Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. *(Must provide copies of all relevant transcripts. Official transcripts may be required at a later date)

Do you meet one of the experience or education requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the requirements in option A.
 Yes, I meet one of the requirements in option B.
 No, I do not have the specialized experience or education listed.


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 level, that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Experience factors that encompass human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoW, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force. *(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position, if using experience to qualify)

or

B) Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. *(Must provide copies of all relevant transcripts. Official transcripts may be required at a later date)


3a.
This is a required field. If using experience (option A) to qualify, please explain your experiences here. You will still need any qualifying experiences listed on your resume. If using education to qualify, please note your degree. If this field is blank or missing qualifying information, you may not be considered for interview.


4.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙