Position Title
Biological Science Technician - FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1630-VIS-26-13008353-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7
8
9


2.
Some park locations require employees to operate small watercraft in the performance of their duties. Small watercraft are less than 26 feet in length. Assignment of this responsibility will require the applicant to pass a drug test and may require the employee complete training and obtain a Department of Interior Motorboat Operator Certification Course (DOI-MOCC) certificate. Indicate if you would like to be considered for a position that has this requirement. If you indicate "No" you will not be referred for consideration for these positions.
 Yes – I would like to be considered for positions that require operation of small watercraft. I understand the conditions stated above.
 No – I would not like to be considered for positions that require operation of small watercraft. I understand I will not be considered for positions that have this requirement.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring is defined as residency on the Islands of St. John and St. Thomas.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION QUALIFICATIONS


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience and/or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-05 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. Your application materials must support the answers you claim in this assessment. If not, you will be found not qualified or your score will be lowered.
THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of a Biological Science Technician. This experience includes activities such as: Assists professional staff in conducting and implementing field research and resource monitoring programs; Implements and conducts a wide variety of field activities in support of such programs as the control of non-native and invasive plant species and enhancement of native plant populations. Provides logistic support and area orientation for contract or cooperating scientists. Utilizes databases to enter and organize collected field data and uses standard statistical methods in the preparation of reports; enters and retrieves data from a geographic information system (GIS) and other information management systems; uses a variety of computer software programs to develop graphs, charts, and illustrations for reports and technical publications.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with major study or at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as those shown above for GS-3. At least 6 semester hours of courses must have been directly related to the position to be filled. The successful completion of a full course of study of at least 12 months in a school for clinical laboratory technicians may be substituted for the 1 year of specialized experience required at the GS-5 level for positions involving microbiology and biochemistry technician work. . (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected). You must include transcripts.
 I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience as described in A above or the 4 years of education as indicated in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example, 6 months of the specialized experience described in A above (50% of the experience requirement), and 3 years of college study from an accredited institution (75% of the qualifying education) as specified in B above, equals greater than 100% of the total requirement. (You MUST submit a copy of your transcripts indicating number of credit hours in order to qualify based on the combination option).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-06, position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: implementing established natural resource management projects; following instructions and standardized procedures; collecting and organizing field data; ensuring quality control of data collected; performing routine and recurring testing of collected samples; recording data collected and providing preliminary assessment and classification of the information; assisting in the preparation of resource management reports, plans, and guidelines. Duties are supportive of professional specialists in resource management; relevant to research, conservation, and management of natural resources such but not limited to wildlife (land or aquatic) monitoring or control; field studies on plant or forest ecology, inventorying, monitoring, and/or control of invasive plants, or making other field observations on the state of natural resource conditions.
 I do not have the 1 year of specialized experience as defined in A above; however, I have 1 full year of graduate education in an accredited educational institution (18 semester hour or 27 quarter hours) directly related to this position. Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASENOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I do not have specialized experience or education as described in the statements listed above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-07, position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: following instructions and standardized procedures; collecting and organizing field data; ensuring quality control of data collected; performing routine and recurring testing of collected samples; recording data collected and providing preliminary assessment and classification of the information; assisting in the preparation of resource management reports, plans, and guidelines. Additionally, experience must demonstrate ability to execute established natural resource management projects by independently planning and carrying out steps using established techniques to resolve problems. For example, planning field projects, independently choosing from among several possible courses of action at different stages of the project (e.g., selects site locations, sampling techniques, appropriate equipment, logistics, etc.). Duties are supportive of professional specialists in resource management; relevant to research, conservation and management of natural resources such as but not limited to wildlife (land or aquatic) monitoring or control; field studies on plant or forest ecology, inventorying, monitoring, and/or control of invasive plants, or making other field observations on the state of natural resource conditions.
 I do not have the 1 year of specialized experience as defined in A above; however, I have 1 full year of graduate education in an accredited educational institution (18 semester hour or 27 quarter hours) directly related to this position. Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASENOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience as described in A above or the 1 year of graduate education as indicated in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. For example, I have 6 months of specialized experience (50% of the experience requirements for this position and grade level) combined with 6 months (9 semester hours) of graduate education, as outlined above (50% of the education required to qualify), directly related to this position. Examples of education directly related to the position are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I do not have specialized experience or education as described in the statements listed above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-08, position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: independently organizing, scheduling and executing natural resource management projects from several courses of action, collecting and organizing field data, making field observations, evaluating observed conditions and problems, interpreting variables, trends, correlations and interrelationships among data and conditions, recommending management actions based on prescribed guidelines, preparing draft project reports, and providing logistical support and area orientation for contract or cooperating scientists.
 I do not have the 1 year of specialized experience as defined in A above; however, I have successfully completed two full years (36 semester/54 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level education or master's degree and the coursework is directly related to the work of the position Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASENOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I do not have specialized experience or education as described in the statements listed above.


5.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for a Biological Science Technician, GS-0404-09, position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-8 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: adapting, modifying or developing new techniques and/or procedures to satisfy the needs of research, inventory, monitoring, restoration projects, performing a variety of complex technical duties, in a laboratory, field, or similar location, independently initiates action to resolve or correct technical difficulties and results, tabulating, statistically analyzing and summarizing research data.
 I do not have the 1 year of specialized experience as defined in A above; however, I have successfully completed two full years (36 semester/54 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level education or master's degree and the coursework is directly related to the work of the position Examples of directly related education are biology, botany, range science, forestry, ecology, environmental science, zoology, fisheries, animal husbandry, natural resource management or other directly related fields. PLEASENOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your college transcripts. We will not solicit you for this information and you will NOT receive consideration if it is not submitted.
 I do not have specialized experience as described in the statements listed above.


Selective Factor - Recreational Dive Certification Please select the response that best describes our qualifications in this area. This position requires scientific diving. Divers must have demonstrated proficiency with dive safety practices and standards that are equivalent to the recreational dive certification of an Advanced Open Water Diver. Applicants must have an Advanced Open Water Diver certification (or equivalent) or higher (Rescue Diver, Dive Master, Instructor). If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. You MUST submit documentation of how you meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you possess at least an Advanced Open Water Diver (or equivalent) or higher level of recreational dive certification?

 Yes
 No


Selective Factor - Dive Log Please select the response that best describes our qualifications in this area. This position requires a dive log at minimum 20 scientific dives. Divers should be able to demonstrate proficiency with scientific diving and have logged at minimum 20 scientific dives. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. You MUST submit documentation of how you meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you possess a dive log with at least 20 documented scientific dives?

 Yes
 No


Boat Operation Experience Please select the response that best describes your qualifications in this area. This position requires a demonstrated training and experience operating and crewing small vessels (up to 28' in length) with twin outboard engines in open ocean conditions. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. You MUST demonstrate in your resume of how you meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Do you possess Boat Operation experience - This position requires demonstrated training and experience operating and crewing small vessels (up to 28' in length) with twin outboard engines in open ocean conditions.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙