Position Title
Supervisory Attorney-Advisor (Customs)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-DE-12986855-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


2.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.


3.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


4.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 Yes
 No


6.
When U.S. Customs and Border Protection completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 A. I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 B. I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


7.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience to qualify for the GS-15 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes drafting and reviewing complex legal rulings and regulatory documents for internal programs within established deadlines to ensure technical and legal accuracy; coordinating with cross-functional teams and subject matter experts to analyze and interpret statutory and regulatory requirements for international trade matters. advising senior leadership on policy and legal issues by preparing comprehensive legal memoranda and recommendations on proposed legislation and agency actions; supervising and mentoring a team of attorney-advisors and support staff by assigning projects, providing feedback, and monitoring progress according to established performance standards; leading the development and implementation of operating procedures and strategic plans for regulatory programs by integrating stakeholder input and aligning with organizational objectives.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


8.

The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Basic Requirement for this position. 

Applicants must be an active member in good standing of the bar of a state, The District of Columbia, territory or possession of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.  I understand that I am required to submit proof of my active status. 

Do you meet the Basic Requirement as described? 

 Yes, I am an active member in good standing of the bar of a court of general jurisdiction of a state, the District of Columbia, territory or possession of the U.S. and I understand that I am required to submit proof of my bar membership claim.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Requirement as described.


9.

The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the Education Requirement for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.  

Applicants must possess completion of the first professional law degree (LL.B. or JD); OR completion of the second professional law degree (LL.M.) from an accredited institution. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim. 

Do you meet the Education Requirement as described? 

 Yes, I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim. Transcript must include the date the degree was awarded/conferred.
 No, I do not meet the Educational Requirement as described.


10.
All newly appointed, GS-15s are required to complete mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible managers to attend the training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, permanent GS-15s shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you will be required to schedule the mandatory training within the first 90-days of your appointment and complete the training in Harpers Ferry, WV unless you have already completed this requirement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙