Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12950207-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience/duties performed in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made. Texas Army National Guard membership is required.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component, eligible for immediate transfer into the Texas Army National Guard
 I am a former member of another component, eligible for immediate transfer into the Texas Army National Guard
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


2.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Surface Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor, WS-5801-10 position.

 I have experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems. Knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards. Ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems. AND Experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


3.
Are you a MSG (E-8) not to exceed CSM (E-9) -OR- a W-1/W01 not to exceed W-3/CW3? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Army National Guard in the rank of MSG (E-8) not to exceed CSM (E-9) -OR- a W-1/W01 not to exceed W-3/CW3. Civilians without prior service should respond "No".

 I am a MSG (E-8) not to exceed CSM (E-9)
 I am a W-1/W01 not to exceed W-3/CW3.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the MOS/AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of your appointment?

OFF W-1 to W-3 Branch OD

 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your rank and MOS/AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? -OR- Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? Please type YES or NO in the space provided below.
 Yes
 No


7a.
If yes, please include start and end date for your orders and submit a copy of orders with your application. Civilians should type "N/A".


8.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙