Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Reemployed Annuitant)
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
ST-12827477-26-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 7, 2025 to Friday, November 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Mobile, AL
 C. Montgomery, AL
 D. Anchorage, AK
 E. Phoenix, AZ
 F. Fort Smith, AR
 G. Little Rock, AR
 H. Los Angeles, CA
 I. Sacramento, CA
 J. San Diego, CA
 K. San Francisco, CA
 L. Denver, CO
 M. New Haven, CT
 N. Wilmington, DE
 O. District of Columbia, DC
 P. Miami, FL
 Q. Tallahassee, FL
 R. Tampa, FL
 S. Atlanta, GA
 T. Macon, GA
 U. Savannah, GA
 V. Guam, GU
 W. Honolulu, HI
 X. Boise, ID
 Y. Chicago, IL
 Z. East Saint Louis, IL
 AA. Springfield, IL
 AB. Indianapolis, IN
 AC. South Bend, IN
 AD. Cedar Rapids, IA
 AE. Des Moines, IA
 AF. Topeka, KS
 AG. Lexington, KY
 AH. Louisville, KY
 AI. Baton Rouge, LA
 AJ. New Orleans, LA
 AK. Shreveport, LA
 AL. Portland, ME
 AM. Baltimore, MD
 AN. Boston, MA
 AO. Detroit, MI
 AP. Grand Rapids, MI
 AQ. Minneapolis, MN
 AR. Jackson, MS
 AS. Oxford, MS
 AT. Kansas City, MO
 AU. Saint Louis, MO
 AV. Billings, MT
 AW. Omaha, NE
 AX. Las Vegas, NV
 AY. Concord, NH
 AZ. Newark, NJ
 BA. Albuquerque, NM
 BB. Brooklyn, NY
 BC. New York, NY
 BD. Syracuse, NY
 BE. Charlotte, NC
 BF. Greensboro, NC
 BG. Raleigh, NC
 BH. Fargo, ND
 BI. Saipan, Mariana Island, MP
 BJ. Cleveland, OH
 BK. Columbus, OH
 BL. Muskogee, OK
 BM. Oklahoma City, OK
 BN. Tulsa, OK
 BO. Portland, OR
 BP. Philadelphia, PA
 BQ. Pittsburgh, PA
 BR. Scranton, PA
 BS. Hato Rey, PR
 BT. Providence County, RI
 BU. Columbia, SC
 BV. Sioux Falls, SD
 BW. Knoxville, TN
 BX. Memphis, TN
 BY. Nashville, TN
 BZ. Dallas, TX
 CA. Houston, TX
 CB. San Antonio, TX
 CC. Tyler, TX
 CD. Salt Lake City, UT
 CE. Burlington, VT
 CF. Saint Thomas, VI
 CG. Alexandria, VA
 CH. Roanoke County, VA
 CI. Seattle, WA
 CJ. Spokane, WA
 CK. Charleston, WV
 CL. Clarksburg, WV
 CM. Madison, WI
 CN. Milwaukee, WI
 CO. Cheyenne, WY


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above.


4.
If you selected, "I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above", please provide an explanation. If you provided a response of A above, please type N/A.


5.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


Top 3 Preferred District Location
Please select your top 3 preferred district locations from the list provided below. Keep in mind, that final selection will be determined based on the needs of the agency.


1.

Please select your top three (3) preferred duty locations from the list below. 

Note: Final placement will be determined based on the needs of the agency. Selections are used for placement consideration only and do not guarantee assignment to a particular location.

 A. Albuquerque, NM
 B. Alexandria, VA
 C. Anchorage, AK
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Baltimore, MD
 F. Baton Rouge, LA
 G. Billings, MT
 H. Birmingham, AL
 I. Boise, ID
 J. Boston, MA
 K. Brooklyn, NY
 L. Burlington, VT
 M. Cedar Rapids, IA
 N. Charleston, WV
 O. Charlotte, NC
 P. Cheyenne, WY
 Q. Chicago, IL
 R. Clarksburg, WV
 S. Cleveland, OH
 T. Columbia, SC
 U. Columbus, OH
 V. Concord, NH
 W. Dallas, TX
 X. Denver, CO
 Y. Des Moines, IA
 Z. Detroit, MI
 AA. District of Columbia
 AB. East Saint Louis, IL
 AC. Fargo, ND
 AD. Fort Smith, AR
 AE. Grand Rapids, MI
 AF. Greensboro, NC
 AG. Guam, GU
 AH. Hato Rey, PR
 AI. Honolulu, HI
 AJ. Houston, TX
 AK. Indianapolis, IN
 AL. Jackson, MS
 AM. Kansas City, MO
 AN. Knoxville, TN
 AO. Las Vegas, NV
 AP. Lexington, KY
 AQ. Little Rock, AR
 AR. Los Angeles, CA
 AS. Louisville, KY
 AT. Macon, GA
 AU. Madison, WI
 AV. Memphis, TN
 AW. Miami, FL
 AX. Milwaukee, WI
 AY. Minneapolis, MN
 AZ. Mobile, AL
 BA. Montgomery, AL
 BB. Muskogee, OK
 BC. Nashville, TN
 BD. New Haven, CT
 BE. New Orleans, LA
 BF. New York, NY
 BG. Newark, NJ
 BH. Oklahoma City, OK
 BI. Omaha, NE
 BJ. Oxford, MS
 BK. Philadelphia, PA
 BL. Phoenix, AZ
 BM. Pittsburgh, PA
 BN. Portland, ME
 BO. Portland, OR
 BP. Providence, RI
 BQ. Raleigh, NC
 BR. Roanoke, VA
 BS. Sacramento, CA
 BT. Saint Louis, MO
 BU. Saint Thomas, VI
 BV. Saipan, Mariana Island
 BW. Salt Lake City, UT
 BX. San Antonio, TX
 BY. San Diego, CA
 BZ. San Francisco, CA
 CA. Savannah, GA
 CB. Scranton, PA
 CC. Seattle, WA
 CD. Shreveport, LA
 CE. Sioux Falls, SD
 CF. South Bend, IN
 CG. Spokane, WA
 CH. Springfield, IL
 CI. Syracuse, NY
 CJ. Tallahassee, FL
 CK. Tampa, FL
 CL. Topeka, KS
 CM. Tulsa, OK
 CN. Tyler, TX
 CO. Wilmington, DE


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best describes the experience that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience to be found qualified.


1.
Applicants must have the specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week.)
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience in a certified law enforcement officer position equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service that includes: 1) Conducting a variety of complex criminal investigations and apprehending wanted Federal fugitives. Using a wide range of advanced investigative techniques to include: development and exploitation of leads, interviewing, physical evidence searches, cultivation and use of informants, physical surveillance, electronic surveillance and grand jury proceedings; 2) Preparing affidavits and court order, subpoenas, search and arrest warrants; 3) Conducting investigations of threats to the judiciary and those persons designated by the Attorney General; 4) Transporting prisoners/detainees and/or investigating prisoner/detainee complaints concerning mistreatment, inadequate food or housing, allegation of jail administration misconduct, tort claims, medical issues, etc.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


2.
The Criminal Investigator is a federal law enforcement officer position with a minimum entry age requirement. Applicants under 21 years of age will not be considered for the Criminal Investigator position. Are you at least 21 years of age?

 Yes
 No


3.
The Criminal Investigator is a Primary/Rigorous position covered by the retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412(d) with a maximum entry age requirement. The date immediately preceding an individual's 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment to a position as a law enforcement officer or firefighter position as defined in title 5 U.S.C. 8331(20)(21) or in 5 U.S.C. 8401(14)(17). This age restriction does not apply to those who have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position, or to qualified veterans' preference eligibles regardless of whether they meet the maximum age requirements identified at 5 U.S.C. 3307, unless the hiring agency has determined age is essential to the duties of the job. Select the statement that best describes how you meet the maximum entry age requirement.

 I am at least 21 years of age but not more than 36 years of age.
 I am 37 years of age or older and I claim Veterans' preference. I understand that I must submit a MEMBER - 4 copy of my DD FORM 214 or a certification of service to support my claim.
 I am 37 years of age or older and I have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position which would permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age for these types of positions. I understand that I must submit my SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing tenure code, position occupied and highest grade and step, AND the retirement code to reflect service in a position covered by law enforcement or firefighter retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.
 I am 37 years of age or older and I am not entitled to Veterans' preference, nor do I have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position


4.
The incumbent of this position is required to operate a government-owned or leased motor vehicle in the performance of his or her duties, therefore, a valid state driver's license is required. All applicants tentatively selected for this position must possess and maintain a valid state motor vehicle operator's license. Upon tentative selection, you will be required to submit driver's license information.

 Yes, I possess a valid state driver's license or will be able to obtain one prior to entering on duty.
 No, I do not possess a valid state driver's license, nor will I be able to obtain one prior to entering on duty.


5.
A background security investigation is required for this position. All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be subject to the applicant's successful completion of a background security investigation and favorable adjudication. This position is deemed Critical Sensitive and requires the incumbent to successfully pass an initial Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) as well as periodic reinvestigations. If the incumbent fails to meet the requirements for a successful SSBI at any time, he or she may be subject to removal from the position. Are you willing to submit to a background security investigation?

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
The duties of the position Criminal Investigator require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision in each eye, with or without correction, is required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Near vision, corrective lenses permitted, must be sufficient to read printed material the size of typewritten characters. Corrected far vision, nor worse than 20/30 binocular. Hearing loss, as measured by an audiometer, must not exceed 25 decibels at 500, 1000, 2000, and 3000 Hz levels. When speech is performed, discrimination should be at 90%, both ears. Since the duties of these positions are exacting and responsible, and involve activities under trying conditions, applicants must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the applicant to be a hazard to him or herself, or others is disqualifying. All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to successfully complete a medical examination. If selected for the position, an incumbent must successfully complete periodic medical examinations through their career with the USMS. Are you willing to submit to a medical evaluation?

 Yes
 No


7.
All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to submit a urinalysis prior to appointment to screen for illegal drug use. If selected for the position, an incumbent in this position is subject to random drug testing through their career with the USMS. Are you willing to submit to urinalysis?

 Yes
 No


8.
The incumbent must carry firearms and maintain proficiency in their care and use as authorized by the United States Marshals Service. This position is subject to the Lautenberg Amendment, 18 U.S.C. Section 922(g)(9). Any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence cannot lawfully possess a firearm or ammunition. All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be required to certify whether he or she has ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence. Are you willing to carry a firearm and be subject to the Lautenberg Amendment?

 Yes
 No


9.
Law enforcement officers are held to a high standard of honesty and credibility because of the need for public trust and confidence as related to their job responsibilities, including testifying at criminal trials. As a Criminal Investigator, an incumbent of this position must be available to testify in federal court without being subject to impeachment under Giglio v. United States, 405 U.S. 150 (1972). All applicants tentatively selected for this position will be subject to Giglio impeachment factors and will not be accepted or retained in the position if Giglio impeachment factors are found to apply. All applicants selected for this position are required to certify that to the best of his/her knowledge none of the Giglio impeachment factors apply to him/her. Are you willing to testify in federal court and be subject to the Giglio impeachment factors?

 Yes
 No


10.
Work in the Criminal Investigator position requires considerable and strenuous physical exertion such as long periods of standing, recurring stooping, walking and running. Criminal Investigators must be able to protect themselves or others from physical attacks at any time and without warning. ALL applicants who are tentatively selected for this position are required to pass a USMS Fitness-In-Total Certification test prior to a final offer of employment. Applicants are required to have a current FIT test score on file prior to a final offer of employment. Fitness Testing is a condition of employment for this position. USMS FIT testing will not be conducted until an Agency medical examination has been performed and an approved medical clearance granted. Failure to respond or take the FIT test will result in your removal from the pre-employment process. We highly recommend you maintain your physical and mental preparedness in anticipation of this employment opportunity. Are you willing to submit to fitness testing?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙