Position Title
Retail Sales and Convention Specialist
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12924264-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-13 is one year (52) weeks of experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience:

-Implements retail operational standard operating procedures; AND
-Develops long and short-range retail sales operational plans; AND
-Evaluates effectiveness through retail sales program for attainment of agency goals; AND
-Develops sales, promotional and merchandising strategies, brochures and pamphlets; AND
-Experience participating in sales conventions to promote products or programs.



1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
Please list the organization(s) and the dates that you obtained this experience that can be found on your resume.


Specialized experience for the GS-12 is one year (52) weeks of experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience:

-Implements retail operational standard operating procedures; AND
-Develops sales, promotional and merchandising strategies, brochures and pamphlets; AND
-Experience participating in sales conventions to promote products or programs.



3.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


4.
Please list the organization(s) and the dates that you obtained this experience that can be found on your resume.


Specialized experience for the GS-11 is one year (52) weeks of experience at the GS-9 level or equivalent in either public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:

-Develops sales, promotional and merchandising strategies, brochures and pamphlets; AND
-Experience participating in sales conventions to promote products or programs.

OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
OR
3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree
OR
LL.M., if related
OR
You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. Options for qualifying based on a combination will be identified in the online questions.




5.
For the GS-11, select the answer that best describes your experience and/or education.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M. if related. Qualifying education must be in a field related to this position.
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. (For example: the completion of 50% requirements for Ph.D. and 6 months of specialized experience.)
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above


6.
I have the following experience with projects:
 A. Established project schedules, resources, and costs
 B. Established priorities and timelines for multiple projects
 C. Managed project budget
 D. Started up, monitored and managed projects through completion
 E. Communicated timely updates on project progress to key stakeholders
 F. Met established tasks and project deadlines
 G. Proficient with project management software
 H. Ensured teams worked productively
 I. Managed project risk and anticipated and resolved problems
 J. None of the above


7.
Please check each of the responsibilities/functions in which you have experience.
 A. Plan, develops and execute product plans
 B. Monitors performance of various retail marketing programs
 C. Identifies customer needs and provides input for improvement to processes, new market opportunities and future business development
 D. Assists in developing plans for pricing products
 E. Analyzes database to develop program strategies
 F. None of the above


8.
Please indicate which of the following segments you have been responsible for while working with projects.
 A. Planning
 B. Evaluating
 C. Leading
 D. Tacking
 E. Analyzing
 F. Coordinating
 G. None of the above


9.
Select all of the following in which you have experience working with teams:
 A. Product development
 B. E-Commerce
 C. Market research and analysis
 D. Sales and promotion
 E. None of the above


10.
Select all of the following that describes your project management and team experience:
 A. I have maintained effective working relationships with specialized groups, either professionally and/or personally.
 B. I have assisted in developing short-range plans.
 C. I have assisted in developing long-range plans.
 D. I have assisted in the planning and conducting of (from start to finish) special events and/or projects with the purpose of educating the public and/or internal workforce on company and/or organization mission-related topics.
 E. I have experience in coordinating an organization and/or company’s participation in numismatic events, expos, and/or fairs sponsored by local governments, businesses, and/or other external parties for the purpose of educating the public on the history and advancements of United States currency.
 F. I have been a participant on a team tasked with planning and managing a project that has multiple objectives and impacts internal and external (public) participants.
 G. I have experience independently planning, organizing, tracking, and managing projects involving outside stakeholders or media.
 H. None of the above


11.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience in sales and marketing:
 A. I have experience conducting Retail Sales Research on a variety of target markets relative to numismatics or related objects.
 B. I have conducted research and provided recommendations on best practices for e-commerce and fulfillment operations.
 C. None of the above


12.
Select all of the following marketing and/or promotional methods and techniques you have experience utilizing.
 A. Media
 B. Feature articles, brochures and/or pamphlets
 C. Both on and offline marketing platforms
 D. Exhibits and displays
 E. Face-to-face networking opportunities
 F. None of the above


13.
Indicate your experience in maintaining and promoting effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers or contractors.
 I have established effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers or contractors.
 I have worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers or contractors.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


14.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe the communication / briefing skills that you use to support agency goals and the agency leadership.
 A. I have made oral presentations to peers communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities.
 B. I have made oral presentations to managers and supervisors communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities.
 C. I have written and delivered presentations to peers communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities.
 D. I have written and delivered presentations to managers and supervisors communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities.
 E. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations to my peers.
 F. I have not performed any of the above.


15.
I have made formal or informal presentations in the following settings:
 A. Before decision-making groups
 B. To senior management
 C. Cross-functional working groups
 D. During focus groups
 E. At professional meetings or conferences
 F. During workshops
 G. To third party vendors
 H. I do not have or do not meet any of the choices above


16.
Choose all examples that apply to your experience analyzing data and information when preparing written reports.
 A. I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared.
 B. I have participated in the preparation of briefings, articles, studies, or reports.
 C. I have reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 D. I have assisted in composing explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 E. I have analyzed trends and other information to: (a) assist in identifying issues, problems, challenges, opportunities, and options and (b) assisting in formulating strategies and recommendations that were incorporated into written reports.
 F. None of the above


17.
In the text box below, please list the projects, data platforms and dates that you obtained this experience that can be found on your resume.


18.
From the following list, select all of the management duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 I. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervision.
 J. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 K. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙