Position Title
Legal Assistant (OA) Recent Graduate - Environmental Enforcement Section
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-031-EXC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jun 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Recent Graduates Program
The recent graduate program is for those who have graduated, within the past two years, from a qualifying educational institution or certificate program. The recent graduate program offers career development with training and mentorship. You must apply within two years of getting your degree or certificate (veterans have up to six years to apply due to their military service obligation). 

For more information, review: USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources or Learn more about the recent graduate program...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response below that best describes your eligibility for the Recent Graduate program:
 I have completed a degree program from an accredited college, university or certificate program ON or AFTER May 2024.
 I am a Veteran who was precluded from applying for a recent graduate position during the two-year eligibility period due to a military service obligation, and not more than 6 years have transpired since I completed the requirements for a diploma, degree, or certificate program.
 I expect to completed a degree program from an accredited college, university, or certificate program by the end of the current semester. I will submit proof of impending completion of education.
 I have completed a degree program from an accredited college, university, or certificate program BEFORE May 2024.
 None of the above


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your qualification for the Legal Assistant (OA) Recent Graduate, GS-5. The resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-4 Federal grade level applying standardized rules, processes, and procedures concerning commonly utilized general reference sources and legal research tools to perform legal support work. This experience must include preparing correspondence and administrative forms using proper format, grammar, punctuation, and spelling.
 I have successfully completed 4 years of education above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite. This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university.
 I have a combination of specialized experience described in letter A above and post high school education described in letter B above (e.g. 6 months specialized experience and 2 years above high school meets the specialized experience).
 I do not possess the specialized experience or education in A, B, or C above.


3.
Select the response below that best describes your typing skill:
 I type 40 words or more per minute.
 I type less than 40 words per minute.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙