Position Title
Physician (Internal-WTVAHCS Employee Only)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13025652-26-WI Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Dec 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Hobbs, NM
 B. Abilene, TX
 C. Big Spring, TX
 D. Odessa, TX
 E. San Angelo, TX


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. Please choose the best answer to determine your eligibility for this position.


1.
Do you possess a degree of doctor of medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine? The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed.

 I have graduated from a school of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, or
 I have graduated from a school of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted.
 I have graduated from a foreign medical graduate school not covered in (a) or (b) above, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) is required. (Must provide a copy for verification)
 None of the above.


2.
Select which education degree applies to you?

 Doctor of Medicine (M.D.)
 Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.)


3.
Have you completed residency training, or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification? Approved residencies are: (1) Those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or American Osteopathic Association (AOA), in the list published for the year the residency was completed or (2) Other residencies or their equivalents which the Professional Standards Board determines to have provided an applicant with appropriate professional training.

 Approved completed residency by ACGME.
 Approved completed residency by AOA.
 Approved completed residency by other residencies of their equivalents which the PSB determines (must provide a copy with application).
 None of the above.


4.
Please list your Board Certification (if applicable).



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you hold a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice Medicine in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia?

 Yes
 No


6.
Please provide the following information regarding your licensure (active and expired): License type, state issued, date of original issuance, date of expiration.



7.
Please indicate the specific specialty for which you are interested in being considered. Please note - residency and/or fellowship training must be obtained within an accredited core specialty.
 A. Geriatrics
 B. Internal Medicine
 C. Optometry
 D. Pathology
 E. Primary Care/Family Medicine
 F. Psychiatry
 G. Radiology
 H. Cardiology
 I. Pain Management
 J. Urology
 K. Orthopedics
 L. Podiatry


8.
Location of Interest: Please indicate the specific VA Clinic/location within the West Texas Veterans Health Care System for which you are interested, should a position become vacant.

 A. Abilene CBOC
 B. Big Spring
 C. Hobbs CBOC
 D. Odessa CBOC
 E. San Angelo CBOC


9.
Please indicate your citizenship status.

 U.S. Citizen
 Permanent Resident Alien
 H-1B Temporary Worker Visa
 O-1 Temporary Worker Visa
 TN Temporary Worker Visa
 J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa
 None of the above.


INSTRUCTIONS: ***Application Package Notification & Important Information***
 
We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 
 
Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.
 
Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 
*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).
 
*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
 
*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙