Position Title
FLIGHT SERVICES MANAGER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12869796-AF-26-372 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a Bargaining Unit, Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) Title 32 Technician with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently a Non-Bargaining Unit Permanent or Indefinite (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) or a Bargaining Unit Indefinite (Tenure 3) Title 32 Technician with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a Traditional (Drill, ADSW, etc.) member of the Montana Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am currently a member of the Armed Forces, and I am willing and eligible to transfer to the Montana Air National Guard. (Area IV)
 I am eligible for Montana Air National Guard membership, and I am willing to join. (Area V)
 I am not eligible for Montana Air National Guard membership, OR I am unwilling to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, and/or training providing a good understanding of administrative methods for accomplishing the work of an organization. Experience working with Federal, State, and municipal regulations governing the use of transportation vehicles. Experience in maintenance of inventories and cost computations.

Do you meet the General Experience Requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Experience, education, or training performing, administering, or supervising technical and analytical work concerned with planning, development and execution of traffic policies and programs. Experience interpreting applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and regulations concerning transportation and traffic procedures. Knowledge of transportation requirements and systems for specific geographic areas (International and Continental United States). Experience in maintaining, retailing, purchasing, or procurement of automotive, rail, air, bus, or other transportation equipment or services, or in the operation of a commercial transportation facility or terminal. This experience must have demonstrated knowledge of fleet operations; familiarity with Federal, State, and municipal regulations governing the use of transportation vehicles; and the maintenance of inventories and cost computations.

Do you meet the Specialized Experience Requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E7 - E8)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of transfer/enlistment/reinstatement?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙