Position Title
Woodworking Machine Operator Supervisor (Woodworking Machine Operator Foreman)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
FPI-26-13052740 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


2.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


3.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: All applicants must clearly address the Selective Factor in their resume and MUST upload a copy of their license/certification at the time you apply. Failure to provide this documentation will result in loss of consideration for this position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS

LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
Woodworking Machine Operator Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or provided training to new workers; and/or supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or organized work assignments, estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or provided training to new workers.
 I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers; and/or I have led workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools, and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with training of new workers.
 I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers; and/or I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew.
 None of the above.


3.
Woodworking Machine Operator Supervisors must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems.
 I have researched information related to a possible career in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have shown willingness to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment (i.e., to determine necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions).
 I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization, and/or I have supervised inmates on a day-to-day basis within a correctional environment; trained inmate workers in completing specific tasks, such as sanitation; provided supervision to confined individuals.
 None of the above.


4.
Woodworking Machine Operator Supervisors must have the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of woodworking machine equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked on woodworking machine equipment and sought assistance only when encountering unusual problems; and/or I have experience in repairing and operating woodworking machine equipment; and/or I have used written instructions to assemble woodworking machine equipment.
 I have directed lower graded workers in assembly, installation and repair of major items related to woodworking equipment; and/or I have determined the type and extent of repairs required for the entire woodworking machine and the working relationships of its components
 I have satisfactorily performed machine repair duties under supervision; and/or I have assisted other mechanics in machine repair duties; and/or I have acquired woodworking machine repair knowledge through classroom training in a trade school; and/or I have disassembled, cleaned, adjusted, and replaced defective parts in woodworking machines; and/or I have performed routine maintenance related to woodworking machine equipment; and/or I have prepared estimates for routine repairs.
 I have assembled and installed woodworking machine equipment; and/or I have diagnosed and overhauled woodworking machines and components; and/or I have experience as an instructor of woodworking machine assembly, installation and repair.
 None of the above.


5.
Consider the knowledge and ability required to follow wood working practices such as precise measurements and keeping tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments, and other woodworking practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have trained as a worker on production equipment used in the industry); and/or I have experience as a worker in a small cabinet shop with production equipment; and/or I have experience as a salesperson in the sales/marketing of woodworking production equipment.
 I have experience in making one-of-a-kind furniture pieces for profit and developed a familiarity with the processes and materials used in their production; and/or I have experience with assisting in making one-of-a-kind furniture pieces for profit and developed a familiarity with the processes and materials used in their production; and/or I have experience in production of knock down (KD)/kitted furniture components and assembly processes.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising workers in a furniture or cabinet factory; and/or I have held responsible for a section of the factories production process; and/or I have experience as a key worker in the furniture/cabinet industry with experience on essential equipment and accountability for its production.
 None of the above.


6.
Consider the ability to respond to instructions and specifications (i.e., blueprints, manuals, sketches, and work orders). From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have taken the furniture designers drawings and made shop drawings used on the factory floor to manufacture the furniture; and/or I have used engineers blueprints for making furniture and interpreted the materials and equipment needed to manufacture the item which was used to calculate the cost of manufacturing; and/or I have utilized engineered drawings for new products to develop factory floor work and process instructions for sub-assembly and assembly components.
 I have set up a variety of shop equipment to make cabinet parts using shop drawings or instructions; and/or I have laid out a pattern of holes to be drilled; and/or I have marked parts to be cut using shop drawings.
 I have experience in solving problems by interpreting drawings and specifications and determining what errors were made in manufacturing; and/or I have made recommendations for improving manufacturing efficiency or quality that were implemented based on a review of the product drawings; and/or I have revised standard work process on existing product lines based on equipment/layout changes in factory settings.
 None of the above.


7.
Consider the ability to layout work and structures from blueprints, using measuring tools common to the woodworking trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have followed blueprints in laying out pre-cut cabinet parts; and/or I have laid out portions of cabinet patterns at the direction of section foreman; and/or I have followed directions and drawings of the crew leader, laid out sections, framework and some finish work.
 I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined exact quantities of materials and laid out parts to be machined; and/or I have laid out all types of finished work for custom cabinets from work orders, sketches and instructions.
 I have figured types of materials and planned layout of furniture parts needed from complex blueprints; and/or I have used fine measurements in prescribing length to be cut; and/or I have made drawings from blueprints for others to follow in laying out sections; and/or I have from ideas of customers, developed plans and made drawings; and/or I have conducted all measurements, estimated materials from the measurements and laid out all work, including finish.
 None of the above.


8.
Consider knowledge of and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools/equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have used all hand and power tools for maintaining inside of shop; and/or I have set up and operated power saw, used standard measuring tools (i.e., calipers, tapes, try square); and/or I have used heavier woodworking equipment; and/or I have as a finish woodworking foreman, used various common hand and power tools including circular saw, power sander, electric drill, and radial saw.
 I have instructed apprentices in use of various tools and equipment used in the manufacture of furniture or cabinets; and/or I have set up and operated saws, tenon machines, molders, boring machines, Computer Numerical Control (CNC) routers and various measurement tools for fine measurement; and/or I have used all common hand and powered equipment for the trade (i.e., planers, jointers, table saws) as well as a 32-milimeter boring equipment as a self-employed woodworker or cabinet maker; and/or I have made furniture and cabinetry and finished the items to the customer’s specification using spray equipment.
 I have used all hand and power tools for making one-of-a-kind furniture; and/or I have set up and operated a power saw; and/or I have used standard measuring tools; and/or I have assisted in the making of furniture or cabinets as an employee and used various tools in the making of cabinets or furniture for sale.
 None of the above.


9.
Consider knowledge of the properties, purposes, and uses of the common woodworking materials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have developed a knowledge of the materials used in the furniture industry and identified their proper application for their use; and/or I have experience in working with a variety of the common materials used in making furniture and selected the right tools and processes needed to work the material into the desired part; and/or I have identified visible defects in finished goods regarding machining processes, assembly, sanding, staining, and packaging.
 I have specified the quantity and quality of materials used in the manufacture of furniture or cabinets and ensured the correct quality of the materials was received by inspecting the materials in accordance with industry standards; and/or I have made recommendations for the substitution of materials to correct ongoing quality problems in furniture or cabinet manufacturing; and/or I have worked with vendors to explain specifications and quality requirements.
 I have used engineer blueprints and interpreted the materials needed to manufacture the furniture cost effectively using company or industry standards; and/or I have experience in inspecting materials for adherence to set quality specifications and worked with vendors in resolving any problems; and/or I have performed a bill of material review process for existing factory products to ensure accurate material usage identification.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙