Position Title
0398 INSTRUCTOR JROTC (NCO, ARMY)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12907269-EX Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Instructor JROTC position with Department of Defense Education Activity. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Instructor JROTC. You must meet one of the following pathways outlined in 10 USC 2031.

 Retired Non-Commissioned Officer whose qualifications are approved by the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such employment.
 Non-Commissioned Officer who are separated with an honorable discharge within the past 5 years with at least 8 years of service and are approved by the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such employment
 Non-Commissioned Officer who are active participating members of the selected reserve at the time of application, for purposes of section 101(d) of this title, and have not yet reached retirement eligibility and are approved by the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such employment.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
Are you certified to teach JROTC? You must provide a copy of your current JROTC Instructor Certification/Letter.
 Yes, I am certified to teach JROTC. You MUST provide the current JROTC Instructor Certification/Letter.
 No, I am not certified to teach JROTC.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙