Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-13056617-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eloy, AZ
 AB. Florence, AZ
 AY. Phoenix, AZ
 AZ. Tucson, AZ
 BA. Adelanto, CA
 BB. Concord, CA
 BC. Imperial, CA
 BD. North Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 BE. West Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles County, CA
 BF. Otay, CA
 BG. Sacramento, CA
 BH. San Diego, CA
 BI. San Francisco, CA
 BJ. Santa Ana, CA
 BK. Van Nuys, CA
 BL. Aurora, CO
 BM. Denver, CO
 BN. Hartford County, CT
 BO. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 BP. Miami - Krome (Detained) Immigration Court, Miami-Dade County, FL
 BQ. Orlando, FL
 BR. Atlanta – W. Peachtree Street Immigration Court., Atlanta, GA
 BS. Atlanta – Ted Turner Drive Immigration Court, Atlanta, GA
 BT. Stewart Immigration Court, Lumpkin, GA
 BU. Honolulu, HI
 BV. Chicago, IL
 B. Indianapolis, IN
 C. Louisville, KY
 D. Baton Rouge, LA
 E. Jena, LA
 F. New Orleans, LA
 G. Oakdale, LA
 H. Baltimore, MD
 I. Hyattsville, MD
 J. Boston, MA
 K. Chelmsford, MA
 L. Detroit, MI
 M. Fort Snelling, MN
 N. Kansas City, MO
 O. Omaha, NE
 P. Las Vegas, NV
 Q. Elizabeth, NJ
 R. Newark, NJ
 S. Chaparral, NM
 T. Buffalo, NY
 U. New York – Federal Plaza and Broadway Immigration Court, New York, NY
 V. New York – Varick Immigration Court, New York County, NY
 W. Ulster County, NY
 X. Charlotte, NC
 Y. Saipan, Mariana Island, MP
 Z. Cleveland, OH
 AA. Portland, OR
 AC. Philadelphia, PA
 AD. San Juan, PR
 AE. Memphis, TN
 AF. Conroe, TX
 AG. Dallas, TX
 AH. El Paso, TX
 AI. Fort Worth, TX
 AJ. Harlingen, TX
 AK. Houston – South Gessner Road Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 AL. Houston–Greenspoint Park Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 AM. Houston – Jefferson Street Immigration Court, Houston, TX
 AN. Laredo, TX
 AO. Pearsall, TX
 AP. Port Isabel, TX
 AQ. San Antonio, TX
 AR. Salt Lake City, UT
 AS. Annandale, VA
 AT. Falls Church, VA
 AU. Richmond, VA
 AV. Sterling, VA
 AW. Seattle, WA
 AX. Tacoma, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services) position with the Federal government.


Minimum Qualifications


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for the Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services) GS-0901-09 position.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable experience outside the Federal service), performing 3 or more of the following duties: 1) Reviewing legal or administrative case files to identify required documents, notices, or information needed for scheduled proceedings; 2) Processing legal or administrative documents in accordance with established policies, procedures, regulations, or filing requirements; 3) Providing technical information to customers or parties concerning case status, hearing schedules, notices, or procedural requirements; and 4) Using automated case management or records systems to update, retrieve, or track case information. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option)
 I have successfully completed a master's OR equivalent graduate degree, OR two (2) full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or LL.B. or J.D. in a directly related field, that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the full amount of experience described in A above or the full amount of graduate education described in B above. However, I have a percentage of the experience and a percentage of the education which when combined totals 100% of the necessary experience and education needed to qualify for this position. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed in A above; then determine your education as a percentage of the education listed in B above; then add the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent. (Only graduate education beyond one year, i.e., 18 semester hours, may be combined with experience under this provision.) (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience as described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Legal Administrative Specialist (In-Court Services) GS-0901-11 position.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable experience outside the Federal service), performing 3 or more of the following duties: 1) Analyzing legal or administrative case files to identify procedural issues, missing information, or actions needed to support scheduled proceedings; 2) Applying established legal or administrative policies, regulations, precedents, or procedural guidance to resolve case-processing issues with limited supervision; 3) Providing substantive procedural information to staff, customers, or other parties regarding case status, schedules, notices, or administrative requirements; and 4) Evaluating case-processing issues to determine appropriate administrative action when information is incomplete, conflicting, or requires further research. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option)
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. OR equivalent doctoral degree, OR three (3) full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or LL.M. in a directly related field, that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the full amount of experience described in A above or the full amount of graduate education described in B above. However, I have a percentage of the experience and a percentage of the education which when combined totals 100% of the necessary experience and education needed to qualify for this position. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed in A above; then determine your education as a percentage of the education listed in B above; then add the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent. (Only graduate education beyond two (2) years, i.e., 36 semester hours, may be combined with experience under this provision.) (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙