Position Title
Program Examiner
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-12932210-26-SM-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently a federal employee working at the Executive Office of the President (EOP), Office of Management and Budget (OMB)?  If yes, confirm:
You are currently employed on a permanent appointment in the competitive service with the EOP
Your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, block 24 is a "1" or a "2" and block 34 is a "1"
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status.  If you have previously held a higher grade or if your position has a full performance level, please ensure you submit all of the SF-50's to support your prior appointments.  We cannot accept Award SF-50's.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current Federal Government Employee, assigned to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0301-12, Program Examiner.

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector which includes experience: 1) drafting and presenting succinct written products to describe and summarize analyses, policy options and implications, and recommendations on such issues; 2) utilizing advanced analytic methods, such as applied economics, econometrics, finance, statistics, financial management, budget analysis, or cost-benefit analysis; AND 3) developing strategies to improve the effectiveness of programs and program operations.
 I do not have all of the specialized experience as described above.


3.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0301-13, Program Examiner.
NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector which includes experience: 1) performing objective qualitative and quantitative analyses of policy, budget, and programmatic issues; 2) applying analytical and evaluative methods to improve effectiveness of programs, leading the development and presentation of recommendations to higher-level decision makers; AND 3) independently drafting and presenting both succinct and more in-depth written products to describe and summarize complex analyses, demonstrating policy options and implications, and developing strategies for audiences with differing levels of expertise to improve the effectiveness of these or similar programs.
 I do not have all of the specialized experience as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. 

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙