Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-13050694-26-GB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following question based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response.


When answering the questions below please keep in mind the following basic requirements and licensure required for the Occupational therapist position:

The individual must meet at least one of the following education requirements at all levels advertised in this announcement, and must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations.

Education and/or Experience for all grade levels advertised in this announcement:
(a): Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist;
OR
(b): Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
OR
(c): Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy

For GS 11 and GS 12 the individual must also possess the following basic requirements:
1. Certification. Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist
AND
2. State Licensure. Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. 

Foreign Graduates. Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license (GS 11 and GS 12(


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: For GS 9 position.

Select the ONE statement below that best describes your experience and/or education and licensure to meet the minimum requirements for this position. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this announcement for detailed information.
 I possess a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I possess a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I possess a Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I do not possess the education or experience required at the GS 9 level.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: For GS 11 position.

Select the ONE statement below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the minimum requirements for this position. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this announcement for detailed information.
 In addition to the basic education, certification and licensure requirements outlined in the instructions of this assessment, I also possess at least 1 year of experience equivalent at the GS-9 that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this position. Experience includes: Assessment and treatment interventions for a wide range of human function systems, basic foundations of OT.
 In addition to the basic education, certification and licensure requirements outlined in the instructions of this assessment, I also possess three years of progressively hire level education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field.
 I do not possess the required education, certification, licensure or experience required for the GS-11 grade level


3.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: For GS 12 position.

Select the ONE statement below that best describes your experience and/or education and licensure to meet the minimum requirements for this position. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this announcement for detailed information.
 In addition to the basic education, certification and licensure requirements outlined in the instructions of this assessment , I also possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS 11 occupational therapist, Experience includes: Knowledge of occupational therapy practice, ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, implement intervention plans, monitoring an individuals response to interventions and modify plans accordingly.
 I do not possess the required education, certification, licensure or experience required for the GS-12 grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙