Position Title
AIRPLANE PILOT
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12896027-AF-26-398 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I NB)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II NB)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
EDUCATION REQUIREMENT:
Must have an undergraduate degree from an accredited college/university.

Do you meet the education requirement listed above?

(Must submit transcripts showing awarded degree with application to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


3.
CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT
Must have:

A) Federal Aviation Administration certifications awarded from accredited civilian aviation program

-OR-

B) Aviation certifications from an accredited military aviation school.


Do you meet one of the certification requirements listed above?

(Must submit certifications with application to be considered for this position)
 Yes, option A.
 Yes, option B.
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT:
Must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts.

Do you meet the general experience requirement listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)**
 Yes
 No


5.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:

Must have at least two years working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facility; or, Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Group. Qualification competencies are determined by three factors:

The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. Experienced in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following main- frame/military aircraft: Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Although a variety of piloting administrative tasks are performed in support of an Air National Guard aviation program, the required competence for this grade includes the ability to train and instruct others in the piloting of a specified main-frame military aircraft. Experienced in reading and applying mission tasks, intelligence reports, and weather information. Experienced in supervising and/or conducting mission planning, mission preparations, filing of flight plans, and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning. Experienced in operating aircraft controls and equipment. Experienced in performing or supervising the work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations, surveillance, or reconnaissance. Experienced in conducting or supervising crew member training on simple to complex mission specific tasks. Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Experienced in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures, and mission tactics. Experienced in planning and preparing for missions; and, must have at least two years experiences in piloting or instructing others in piloting specific air-frame/military aircraft. Experienced in various piloting administrative tasks performed in support of Air National Guard aviation programs. Experienced in aviation unit quality control management programs, Experienced in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of the Air Force, National Guard Bureau, and Occupational Safety and Health Administration directives. Experienced in applying directives, regulations, accident reports, safety data, and local operating conditions to determine unit safety program requirements. Experienced in flying operations and coordinating with appropriate agencies to ensure compliance with all applicable safety regulations and programs. Experienced in one or more missions such as, air-to-air; air-to-ground; mortar-to-arm escort; surveillance; reconnaissance; surface attack; killer-scout; target illumination; or laser targeting. Experienced in traditional "stick and rudder" type controls for piloting aircraft direction, altitude, and speed. Experienced in using aircraft instrumentation and aircraft mounted video cameras. Experienced in visual flight- rule type flying and aircraft instrument flying. Experienced in flying simulated "real world" combat and non-combat missions and terrain. Experienced in planning, scheduling, and conducting training flights through Federal Aviation Administration controlled national airspace. Experienced in applying operational directives, training directives, instructions, standard operating procedures, and special instructions of National Guard Bureau, United States Army or United States Air Force, and gaining commands. Experienced in working independently to plan and perform work assignments. Experienced in completing safe and efficient mission accomplishments through the use of Operational Risk Management. Experienced performing aviation duties such as, cancelling flying activities, diverting aircraft, dictating mission requirements, approving specific activities, coordinating for airport or airspace utilization with FAA, or directing emergency actions that involved unit support agencies. Experienced in using applicable Army aviation regulations, policies, requirements and standards, skills and practices; and, the application of instructional techniques to the training of other pilots in the Army National Guard flying facilities. Experienced in conducting particular missions and flying specific main- frame aircraft in combat tactics, flying in mountainous terrain, performing tactical remote site evaluations, performing landings on remote sites, providing ground and flight training, and conducting night-vision operations or instructions. Experienced in standardization and evaluation programs, written ground examinations, emergency procedures, and aircrew performance standards in accordance with applicable directives and Federal Aviation Administration certification requirements. Experienced in reviewing and complying with applicable service flight publications and directives for accuracy and currency. Experienced on weaponry and combat or non-combat tactics for applicable military aircraft. Experienced with wartime and peacetime contingency plans and supplements used for unit mobilizations, deployments, strange field operations, or troop missions and redeployments.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?
 

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(O4/Maj - O5/Lt Col)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


7.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of transfer/enlistment/reinstatement?


8.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙