Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SSO-JOTR-26-13004825-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Field Unit Hiring Authority - Residency
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Joshua Tree National Park, California is defined as residency in California within the following counties: San Bernardino & Riverside, CA.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Temporary NTE 1 Year Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-05 position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-05.


ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF A MAINTENANCE WORKER WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION (SCREEN OUT)


1.
Select the one that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Maintenance Worker position. You must show that you meet the experience described below. Make sure your resume supports your response. (SCREEN OUT) MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION OR YOUR SCORE MAY BE LOWERED.
 I have the ability to independently, and with minimal supervisory review, perform the most difficult and complex landscaping and grounds maintenance such as cutting grass with push/riding mowers, weed eaters, and pruners; basic carpentry, simple electrical installations or repairs, basic plumbing work, and painting interior and exterior surfaces; and janitorial services, including cleaning sinks, toilets, sweeping and mopping floors, and insuring that there are adequate supplies of soap, towels, and toilet paper for a public restroom.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of landscaping and grounds maintenance such as cutting grass with push/riding mowers, weed eaters, and pruners; basic carpentry, simple electrical installations or repairs, basic plumbing work, and painting interior and exterior surfaces; and janitorial services, including cleaning sinks, toilets, sweeping and mopping floors, and insuring that there are adequate supplies of soap, towels, and toilet paper for a public restroom. My work is occasionally reviewed by a supervisor to ensure compliance with associated work standards.
 I have the ability to perform common landscaping and grounds maintenance such as cutting grass with push/riding mowers, weed eaters, and pruners; basic carpentry, simple electrical installations or repairs, basic plumbing work, and painting interior and exterior surfaces; and janitorial services, including cleaning sinks, toilets, sweeping and mopping floors, and insuring that there are adequate supplies of soap, towels, and toilet paper for a public restroom. My work is frequently reviewed by a supervisor to ensure compliance with associated work standards.
 I have performed simple tasks such as cleaning restrooms, changing light bulbs and using a push mower.
 I know little or nothing about maintenance work.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.  I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001), my eligibilties may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFT part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.  I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙