Position Title
Architect (Construction Project Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12967898 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Architect (Construction Project Manager) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess?
 I possess a degree in architecture; or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems.
 I possess a degree in architectural engineering.
 I possess a combination of education and experience in the field of architecture. Specifically, in the absence of a degree in architecture, you must have had 1 year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture.
 I possess at least 5 years of experience demonstrating a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture.
 I do not possess any of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least 3 years of implementing principles, concepts, theories, practices, and techniques of architectural/engineering design?
 Yes
 No


3.
If you identified experience or combination of education/experience in the question above, please identify in the narrative box below where in your resume you performed all duties/responsibilities listed above. You must provide job title(s) and date(s) of employment; if your experience is from a federal civilian position, include the pay plan, series and grade (e.g., NF-0201-04 / GS-0343-11, etc.).


4.
How many years of experience do you have writing Scope of Work (SOW) and Independent Estimates for the design, new construction, renovation, and/or conversion of existing facilities?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have providing on-site facility planning and design assistance, including, but not limited to provision of concept sketches with design alternatives, product/finish recommendations, and project nomination/execution guidance?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


6.
Indicate the organization(s) in which you have architectural/engineering experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Department of the Navy (DON) Non-appropriated Funds (NAF) organization(s).
 B. Department of Defense (DoD) Non-appropriated Funds organization(s) other than DON (e.g., Army, Air Force, Marine Corps).
 C. Department of Defense (DoD) organization(s), other than Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF).
 D. Other Federal organization(s), outside of Department of Defense (DoD).
 E. Private sector organization(s).
 F. None of the above.


7.
Indicate the organization(s) in which you have experience with project planning and budgeting. (Select all that apply)
 A. Department of the Navy (DON) Non-appropriated Funds (NAF) organization(s).
 B. Department of Defense (DoD) Non-appropriated Funds organization(s) other than DON (e.g., Army, Air Force, Marine Corps).
 C. Department of Defense (DoD) organization(s), other than Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF).
 D. Other federal organization(s), outside of Department of Defense (DoD).
 E. Private sector organization(s).
 F. None of the above.


8.
Indicate any of the following in which you have experience managing or designing. (Select all that apply)
 A. Recreation (e.g., marinas, bowling centers, etc.)
 B. Community Support (e.g., swimming pools, playgrounds, etc.)
 C. Lodging (e.g., hotels, multi-family, etc.)
 D. Morale, Welfare, and Recreation business-based facilities (e.g., child development centers, etc.)
 E. I have experience with projects other than those listed above.
 F. I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙