Position Title
Assistant Director
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
FY-DO-12900067 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
- Leading the formulation, interpretation, and implementation of programs focused on money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes; AND
- Working with teams that handle multiple projects for major office or program issues of broad impact; AND
- Performing work that involves analyses, comprehensive program reviews, and development of cross-agency activities; AND
- Managing or leading a team responsible for developing illicit finance policy and/or monitoring new developments in illicit finance activities.


1.
 For the GS-15, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.


Specialized Experience for the GS-14 level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes demonstrated experience in ALL of the following:

-Participating in the formulation, interpretation, and implementation of programs focused on money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes; AND
-Working with teams that handle multiple projects for major office or program issues of broad impact; AND
-Performing work that involves analyses, comprehensive program reviews, and development of cross-agency activities.


2.
For the GS-14, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess in-depth, demonstrated experience in anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorist financing (CFT) programs, and sanctions efforts?
 Yes
 No


4.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience in developing strategies to disrupt the financing of national security threats.
 Completed policy analysis or assessment using classified information and briefed senior officials on the results
 Served as a representative and subject matter expert in an inter-agency or private sector working group to develop a new policy
 Led a team or effort conducting a major investigation into or an assessment on an issue related to terrorist financing, money laundering, or other financial crimes resulting in a policy change or creation
 None of the above


5.
Select the statement(s) that describe the activities you have performed as a regular, recurring part of your job.
 A. Served as a spokesperson for an organization or department on program or project issues to a variety of stakeholder groups, or federal, state and local agencies.
 B. Developed and issued guidance or policy statements on technical, programmatic, or professional issues for the organization.
 C. Served or facilitated on panels, committees, or task forces on technical, programmatic, policy, or professional issues.
 D. Provided guidance to other agency representatives or private industry on technical, programmatic, or policy issues that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 E. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution between organizational entities or technical groups.
 F. Presented briefings and formal presentations to high level representatives of external entities on policy, program, organizational, or project issues.
 G. Facilitated solutions on controversial issues affecting the scope of programs or projects with the public.
 H. None of the above.


6.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience regarding the preparation of briefing documents, talking points, speeches, and correspondence.
 I have led team efforts in the development or implementation of the standards, laws, or regulations governing U.S. policy with respect to economic sanctions programs or Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT).
 I have developed or implemented standards, laws or regulations governing U.S. policy with respect to economic sanctions programs or Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT).
 I have served as a member of a team that has developed or implemented standards, laws, or regulations governing U.S. policy with respect to economic sanctions programs or AML/CFT.
 None of the above.


7.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience implementing strategic management of personnel involved in projects focused on anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorist financing (CFT) programs, and sanctions efforts.
 A. I communicate the vision clearly and link the steps in the process to the overall vision.
 B. I create a sense of urgency to help spark the initial motivation to get things moving.
 C. I convince people that change is necessary and build coalitions with key individuals.
 D. I create and identify short term wins in route to the overall vision to keep the team motivated and focused.
 E. I have not implemented any of these methods.


8.
From the choices below, please check the areas in which you have specific experience.
 A. The financing, structure and logistics of terrorist groups
 B. The financing, structure and logistics of drug-trafficking organizations or trans-national organized criminal groups
 C. Nation State (e.g., Iran, North Korea), control structures, commercial networks, commercial fronts and procurement methods
 D. National Security policy and decision making
 E. Corruption investigations
 F. Cyber crime and other forms of cyber threats
 G. Proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
 H. International banking and finance
 I. Financial fraud investigations or forensic accounting
 J. Non-fiat mechanisms of value transfer, to include virtual currency
 K. Administrative Law as applicable under OPMs 1801 occupational series (
 L. United Nations, European Union, or other multilateral organization policy and decision making
 M. Relevant sanctions laws and Executive Orders
 N. Specially Designated Nationals (SDN) removal process
 O. None of the above


9.
From the following list, identify the types of U.S. Treasury AML/CFT related research and analysis products you have written.
 A. Policy documents
 B. Briefing papers/talking points for senior officials
 C. Professional journal or newspaper articles
 D. Intelligence estimates, assessments, or reports
 E. Legal Briefs or Memoranda of Law
 F. Regulations
 G. None of the above


10.
Please choose from the following those which describe your analytical and evaluative experience.
 A. Analyze and evaluate methods and techniques, both qualitative and quantitative, to accomplish project goals and studies of broad scope.
 B. Found ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed.
 C. Have been designated as a team leader, assisting the immediate supervisor with assignment of tasks.
 D. Use judgment and discretion to manage often sensitive problems where established principles, techniques, guidelines and precedents are not applicable or do not exist.
 E. Plan, design, and evaluate program objectives to determine the methods to be used in attaining desired results.
 F. None of the above.


11.
Select the responsibilities you have performed while in a leadership-type role on a routine basis.
 A. Oversaw, directed, or planned work for employees including setting priorities, setting deadlines and preparing schedules for the completion of work and adjusted as needed.
 B. Assigned work to employees based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Gave advice, counsel, or instruction to employees on program specific, technical, or administrative matters.
 D. Reacted effectively to unforeseen events and delays.
 E. Resolved office conflicts through meetings or other formal means.
 F. Identified developmental and training needs of employees and provided, or arranged for, needed development and training.
 G. Briefed staff and management on the status of assignments.
 H. Recognized and rewarded employees for their contributions.
 I. Have been designated as a team leader, assisting the immediate supervisor with assignment of tasks.
 J. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following apply to your leadership or supervisory experience?
 A. I have supervisory experience.
 B. I have team leader experience.
 C. I have project leader experience.
 D. I have other leadership experience not listed above.
 E. I do not have any of the leadership experience.


13.
Select the statement that best describes your experience overseeing resources within a large, multi-disciplined organization, including setting program goals, preparing budgets, and establishing strategies in support of agency missions.
 I have experience leading teams or managing projects in support of specific agency objectives, including responsibility for staff or other resources.
 I have experience leading teams or managing projects in support of specific agency objectives, but without responsibility for staff or other resources.
 I have experience in the management of an organization, staff, or team, accumulated primarily in an acting or detail capacity and with limited responsibility for resource management or staff.
 I have no experience in the management of a large, multi-disciplined organization or in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.


14.
Select the response(s) that reflect your experience setting priorities and providing advice and instructions on projects focused on money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crime.
 A. I have led coworkers or teams in developing policy, projects, events, or programs, which included planning requirements and process improvement efforts for the assigned activities.
 B. I have also used project management practices, tools, and techniques to manage and control multiple activities, events, projects, or programs.
 C. I have gathered, assessed, and developed expectations from senior leadership in order to ensure activities meet policy goals and objectives.
 D. I have developed and recommended solutions for risks/problems that are affecting the outcome of an activity, event, project, or program.
 E. I have analyzed and evaluated changes in project plans along with their effect on milestones to set priorities and meet policy objectives. I also have experience recommending and implementing new or revised plans to better fit policy objectives.
 F. I have tracked schedules and monitored project action items for multiple activities, events, projects, or programs that have strict deadlines to ensure that projects are delivered on time.
 G. None of the above


15.
Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on anti-money laundering (AML), counter-terrorist financing (CFT) policy or program related issues where there are conflicting positions?
 I have experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues, which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues.
 I have experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues, which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems.
 I have experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues, which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus.
 I have no experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues.


16.
Select the statement that best describes your experience managing a staff or team and other resources within a large, multi-disciplined organization, including the ability to set program goals, prepare budgets, and establish strategies in support of agency missions.
 I have experience in the leadership and management of a, multi-disciplined organization, staff or team, and in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.
 I have experience in leading teams or managing projects in support of specific agency objectives, but without general responsibility for staff or other resources.
 I have experience in the management of an organization, staff, or team, accumulated primarily in an acting or detail capacity and with limited responsibility for resource management or staff.
 I have no experience in the management of a large, multi-disciplined organization or in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙