Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADMDC-26-12951814-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 For the IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN), GS-2210-13, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) or above in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Expert knowledge of public laws, regulations, and policies that affect Information Technology (IT) life-cycle management, strategic planning, IT investment management, and performance management; Comprehensive understanding of project and program management principles to develop time-phased action plans, establish project controls, monitor progression, and provide status reports; Experience navigating complex, interconnected systems and suggesting improvements to underlying technical data sharing architectures between Federal agencies; Skill in applying IT procedures and techniques to resolve management problems and improve management processes; AND Functions as an expert in making sound, well-informed, and objective decisions by perceiving the impact and implications of those decisions to accomplish organizational goals, even in uncertain situations.
 For the IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN), GS-2210-14, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-13) or above in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Expert knowledge of public laws, regulations, and policies that affect Information Technology (IT) life-cycle management, strategic planning, IT investment management, and performance management; Expertise in project and program management principles to develop time-phased action plans, establish project controls, monitor progression, and provide status reports; Experience navigating complex, interconnected systems and suggesting improvements to underlying technical data sharing architectures between Federal agencies; Expertise in identifying and addressing IT workforce planning, prioritization, evaluation, cost schedule management, risk management, quality management, and resource allocation; Advanced knowledge in applying principles of strategic planning, capital planning, investment control, policy development, resource management, and information security management; Experience navigating complex, interconnected systems and suggesting improvements to underlying technical data sharing architectures between Federal agencies; AND Functions as an expert in making sound, well-informed, and objective decisions by perceiving the impact and implications of those decisions to accomplish organizational goals, even in uncertain situations.
 My experience is not reflected in the statements above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙