Position Title
Senior Social Worker - Contract Residential Treatment and Outreach
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12903423-26-LB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


1.
Education - You must have a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE) or a doctoral degree.

Do you possess the required education as described above?

 Yes.
 No.


2.
Licensure - You must possess an active, current, full, and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. Social Workers must maintain current registration in the State of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active and current licensure in that State.

Grandfathering Provision Exception #1: All applicants that have been employed in VHA as a permanent Social Worker employee on September 27, 2020 or earlier (& are currently employed in this series) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of this position due to the grandfather provision if you have never left this occupation and/or have never obtained the education or license/certification requirement.

Do you possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes. I have provided a copy of my license with this application.
 No, but I am currently employed as a permanent Social Worker in VHA & meet the grandfather provision exception #1 listed above. I have provided my latest SF-50 with this application.
 No. I don’t possess the required license, nor do I meet one of the exceptions listed above.


3.
English Language Proficiency - You must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7402(d) and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes.
 No.


GRADE DETRMINATIONS - In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


4.
Senior Social Worker GS-12 - Experience/Education - you must have at least two years of experience post advanced practice clinical licensure and should be in a specialized area of social work practice of which, one year must be equivalent to the GS-11 grade level. Senior social workers have experience that demonstrates possession of advanced practice skills and judgment. Senior social workers are experts in their specialized area of practice. Senior social workers may have certification or other post-masters training from a nationally recognized professional organization or university that includes a defined curriculum/course of study and internship or equivalent supervised professional experience in a specialty.

Licensure/Certification. Senior social workers must be licensed or certified by a state at the advanced practice level which included an advanced generalist or clinical examination, unless they are grandfathered by the state in which they are licensed to practice at the advanced practice level (except for licenses issued in California, which administers its own clinical examination for advanced practice) and they must be able to provide supervision for licensure.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
• Skill in a range of specialized interventions and treatment modalities used in specialty treatment programs or with special patient populations. This includes individual, group, and/or family counseling or psychotherapy and advanced level psychosocial and/or case management.
• Ability to incorporate complex multiple causations in differential diagnosis and treatment within approved clinical privileges or scope of practice.
• Knowledge in developing and implementing methods for measuring effectiveness of social work practice and services in the specialty area, utilizing outcome evaluations to improve treatment services and to design system changes.
• Ability to provide specialized consultation to colleagues and students on the psychosocial treatment of patients in the service delivery area, as well as role modeling effective social work practice skills.
• Ability to expand clinical knowledge in the social work profession, and to write policies, procedures, and/or practice guidelines pertaining to the service delivery area.

Do you possess the required experience, education, licensure and experience as described above?

 Yes.
 No.


RESUME/CV REMINDER - Your resume/CV must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title; Occupational Series and Grade (if a federal position); Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); and Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


DOCUMENT REMINDER- Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit a SF-50 (if you are a current VA/Federal employee), proof of passing the PANCE, certificates/registrations, transcripts and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, certification/registration, transcript(s), etc. may make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). To obtain your SF-50s, VA employees may access your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) by going to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/. All other Federal employees must contact your serving HR Office for assistance assessing your eOPF. It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙