Position Title
Lead Security Assistant - Lead VA Police Dispatcher
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12972620-26-RLW Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Please choose the answers below that best describe your employment and experience. Note: Current VA employees, please ensure you include with your application packet your most recent SF-50 that indicates your present pay grade and any additional required SF-50s to show your time of specialized experience and/or Time-In-Grade. *READ ENTIRE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS BEFORE CHOOSING YOUR RESPONSE*


1.
To help us determine your eligibility for this announcement, please choose the option below that best describes your status for applying.

 I am a current permanent employee of The Department of Veterans Affairs Within the Wilkes-Barre VAMC
 I am NOT a current permanent employee of The Department of Veterans Affairs Within the Wilkes-Barre VAMC


2.
Specialized Experience GS-06: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-05. Choose the option that best fits your experience level. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: articulates and communicates to the team the assignments, projects, problems to be solved, actionable events, milestones, and/or program issues under review, and deadlines and time frames for completion; coaches the team in the selection and application of appropriate problem-solving methods and techniques, provides advice on work methods, practices and procedures, and assists the team and/or individual members in identifying the parameters of a viable solution; performs alarm and access monitoring, tracing access patterns, programming, assigning or removing user permissions, updating databases, remotely opening and securing doors during routine and emergency operations and generating a variety of reports as needed. Assesses on-scene behavior and determines when it is appropriate to dispatch law enforcement or other personnel to investigate; determines the nature and location of the emergency; prioritizes events and commits police resources appropriately; determines what notifications are necessary based upon event type, makes such notifications and coordinates follow-up communications; troubleshoots systems when problems arise and resolves issues whenever possible. Conducts equipment inventories and completes records and other logs. Performs monthly alarm checks, submits reports documenting the operational status of each circuit tested. Initiates work orders for malfunctioning circuits and equipment.

 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-05. Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position by training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: articulates and communicates to the team the assignments, projects, problems to be solved, actionable events, milestones, and/or program issues under review, and deadlines and time frames for completion; coaches the team in the selection and application of appropriate problem-solving methods and techniques, provides advice on work methods, practices and procedures, and assists the team and/or individual members in identifying the parameters of a? viable solution; performs alarm and access monitoring, tracing access patterns, programming, assigning or removing user permissions, updating databases, remotely opening and securing doors during routine and emergency operations and generating a variety of reports as needed. Assesses on-scene behavior and determines when it is appropriate to dispatch law enforcement or other personnel to investigate; determines the nature and location of the emergency; prioritizes events and commits police resources appropriately; determines what notifications are necessary based upon event type, makes such notifications and coordinates follow-up communications; troubleshoots systems when problems arise and resolves issues whenever possible. Conducts equipment inventories and completes records and other logs. Performs monthly alarm checks, submits reports documenting the operational status of each circuit tested. Initiates work orders for malfunctioning circuits and equipment.
 I do NOT have the specialized experience listed in option A


3.
GS-06 Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-05 or higher for at least 52 weeks to be eligible for the GS-06 grade level. If you are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you. Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.

*YOU MUST INCLUDE APPROPRIATE SF-50s AS STATED IN THE ANNOUNCEMENT OR YOU WILL BE FOUND INELIGIBLE*

 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or I am currently a GS-06 or higher
 I am a Wage Grade employee and the Time-In-Grade requirement does not apply to me
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙