Position Title
Supv Logistics Management Specialist
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12834704-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen-Out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience and must meet at least two of the three specialized experience statements to be fully qualified.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). Specialized Experience is defined as: Experience applying logistics processes, policies, procedures, and practices necessary to develop and assess technical and economic feasibility, including cost, schedule and performance for Foreign Military Sales (FMS) major weapon system programs. Experience researching, planning, coordinating, and briefing logistics actions in support of leadership's goals and vision as it applies to FMS programs. Experience identifying and applying the concepts, policies, and practices of logistics management as they apply to new and in-service systems during all acquisition phases of the life cycle. Experience developing and implementing training plans, transportation plans, and fielding activities for FMS cases. Ability to apply critical thinking and apply best logistics practices to support Foreign partners and the FMS implementing Agency. Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙