Position Title
SENIOR OFFICER-DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
26-IN-12847610-TMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. Denver, CO
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Atlanta, GA
 G. Chicago, IL
 H. Boston, MA
 I. New York, NY
 J. Philadelphia, PA
 K. Fort Worth, TX


2.
From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 I am an external candidate, and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, I will be permitted to provide an updated comprehensive resume to determine salary. If an updated resume is not provided within 3 days of being notified of your selection, pay will be established based on the resume submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.


3.
How did you hear about this position?
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)


4.
Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Senior Officer - Deputy Director position, in the Office of Information Technology for the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Do you possess IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below?
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the statement that best describes your experience.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/SK-14 level. Specialized experience includes possessing at least four (4) of the following six (6): 1. Managing enterprise infrastructure operations within a financial services industry or financial regulatory organization; 2. Managing hybrid cloud environments, virtualization platforms, network architecture, and information technology frameworks; 3. Designing, implementing, and managing systems and processes that provide real-time visibility into the health and performance of enterprise infrastructure operations; 4. Overseeing and enforcing technical change management processes to ensure suitability, compliance, and reliability across enterprise infrastructure systems; 5. Overseeing the operations of large-scale information technology customer service support, including collaborating with senior leadership to define long-term goals and development of comprehensive plans to increase user satisfaction; AND/OR 6. Managing contractors, vendors and third-party partnerships to ensure contract performance
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


2a.
Please indicate where on your resume the specialized experience can be identified and evaluated.


3.
Do you possess the following Leadership Competencies?
Leading the Organization: Building and supporting the organization's vision, creating strategies to achieve the vision, supporting and leading innovative and creative initiatives to meet organizational goals.
Leading and Developing People: Ability to recruit, lead, develop and manage the workforce, constructively manages differences and potential conflicts between employees, building teams that meet and exceed an organizations' mission, strategic plan, and goals.
Results Orientation: Ability to meet organizational goals by effectively managing program area, identifying and solving important problems, making sound and timely decisions, and effectively managing and sharing information.
Building Coalitions: Ability to build coalitions by partnering with others to build strategic relationships, influencing and negotiating with those in sphere of influence to achieve favorable outcomes for an organization.
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please indicate where on your resume each competency can be identified and evaluated.


4.
Do you possess the following Technical Competencies?
Technology Expertise: Knowledge of the principles and methods of specialized technologies, tools, and delivery systems, including security, risk management, governance, functionality, and user interface in area of expertise (e.g., programming languages, server, web, applications).
Risk Management and Disaster Recovery: Ability to use methods and tools for risk assessment and mitigation of risk, including the identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks to minimize, monitor, and control the probability and/or impact of events.
 Yes
 No


4a.
Please indicate where on your resume each competency can be identified and evaluated.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙