Position Title
Training Administrator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12958523-26-KDP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


The Training Administrator position requires an Individual Occupational Requirement that will need to be met. Please understand this is required in addition to the grade requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Individual Occupational Requirements

Education:

Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled.

OR 

Experience:

Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s).
Supervising or administering a training program.
Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results.
Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.
Do you meet the Individual Occupation Requirements listed above?

 Yes
 No


Minimum grade requirements -  In addition to the above Individual Occupational Requirements, applicants must also meet the below minimum grade requirements (specialized experience or education). Applicants must have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that are typically in or related to the position to be filled. NOTE: We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Please see the Required Documents section of the announcement for resume requirements. Your experience must be fully documented in your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week to receive proper evaluation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GS-09 minimum grade requirements; Do you possess the below specialized experience or education?
 
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Utilizes MS Word software to execute several office automations functions such as storing and retrieving electronic documents and files; activating printers; inserting and deleting text; and formatting letters, reports and memoranda. Utilized MS Excel spreadsheet software to develop and change spreadsheets in order to graphically display data. Responsible for training program administration including identification of training courses, dissemination of course information to individuals, and answering inquiries related to training programs. Designs reports as required for individuals, Service Chiefs, Medical Center Director and VISN staff as directed linking education curriculum with medical center mission and strategic directives. OR,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. OR,
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and education beyond 1 full year of graduate level education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.



 Yes
 No


3.
GS-11 minimum grade requirements; Do you possess the below specialized experience or education?
 
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Expert knowledge to instruct others and troubleshoot user problems in accessing and launching online courses. Working knowledge of the VA Profile Maintenance system in order to verify TMS users are correctly identified in PM & TMS systems and to troubleshoot problems with inconsistent information in these systems when these inconsistencies affect employees' ability to successfully log on to TMS. Independently develops, coordinates, instructs, evaluates, and manages nonprofessional courses which are standardized and well-organized. Reviews and incorporates training mandates and guidelines from VHA (local, VISN and National), Joint Commission, OSHA and other accrediting bodies' mandates into education programs to meet the intent of the standards ensuring staff are provided adequate and appropriate training based on requirements and position. Serves as TMS administrator; account creation and modification; creating reports; collaborating with program coordinators for content, trains others on TMS functions; troubleshoot irregularities; communicating with stakeholders and end users.OR,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. OR,
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and education beyond Master's or equivalent graduate degree. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙