Position Title
PRODUCTION CONTROLLER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ME-12945261-AR-T32-26-051 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to May 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please complete the following questions.  Each response should be limited to 200 words or less.


1.
Do you have the ability to exercise initiative in taking timely action to schedule and obtain required materials.


2.
Do you have the knowledge of the organization and work procedures of the production activity?


3.
Do you have the ability to exercise considerable initiative in taking prompt and decisive action to prevent or alleviate delays due to conflicts in scheduling, lack of materials, or faulty work processes?


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.  I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).  I understand that any information I give may be investigated.  I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙