Position Title
International Affairs Specialist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRM-PATH-001 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


3.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.

Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


Assessment 1
1.
To be eligible for this Recent Graduate position, you must meet one of the following requirements: Recent graduates who have completed, within the previous two (2) years, a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution. (Current students may apply if they are in their final semester, with a graduation date through Spring 2024). Include your expected graduation date on your resume and provide current transcripts. You must receive your degree prior to appointment. Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree, due to military service obligation, have as much as six years after degree completion to apply.

Do you meet one of the conditions above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions above.


2.
To qualify at the GS-05 grade level, applicants must have one of the following:
A bachelor's degree from an accredited institution; OR
Three (3) years of experience, one year of which was equivalent to at least the GS-04, that demonstrates your ability to: communicate effectively in writing; develop informal and formal written materials, to include various correspondence and summaries of information; and review and edit documents; OR
A combination of education and experience may also be used to qualify. Please note that only education in excess of 60 semester hours of an undergraduate degree is creditable towards meeting the specialized experience requirement at the GS-05 grade level.

Do you meet one of the conditions described above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions listed above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions listed above.


3.
To qualify at the GS-07 grade level, applicants must have one of the following:
A bachelor's degree AND meet one of the following provisions for Superior Academic Achievement: (1) A standing in the upper third of your college class or major subdivision (e.g. school of business) at the time you apply; (2) A grade point average of "B" {3.0 on a 4.0 scale) or its equivalent for all courses completed; (a) at the time of application; or {b) during the last 2 years of your undergraduate curriculum; {3) A "B+" {3.5 on a 4.0 scale) or its equivalent for all courses completed in a qualifying major field of study, either (a) at the time of application; or (b) during the last two years of your undergraduate curriculum; or (4) Election to membership in one of the national honorary societies (other than freshman societies); OR
One (1) full academic year of graduate level education; OR 
At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05, that demonstrates the ability to: communicate effectively in writing; translate or draft correspondence and other written materials; and analyze documents to ensure processes and procedures are followed; OR
A combination of education and experience may also be used to qualify. Please note that only education in excess of a completed undergraduate degree is creditable towards meeting the specialized experience requirement at the GS-07 grade level.

Do you meet one of the conditions described above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions described above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions described above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-09 grade level, applicants must have one of the following:
Two (2) full academic years of progressively higher graduate education; masters or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university; OR 
At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 that demonstrates the ability to: analyze and draft clear and concise narratives, draw on disparate sources to identify salient facts; obtain, analyze, and interpret factual and statistical data; and apply basic knowledge of international affairs; OR
A combination of education and experience may also be used to qualify. Please note that only graduate education in excess of the first full year is creditable towards meeting the specialized experience requirement at the GS-09 grade level.

Do you meet one of the conditions described above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions described above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions described above.


5.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify or inflate your responses may be grounds for not referring you. Please take this opportunity to review your rating to ensure the accuracy of your answers and that they are supported by your resume. Failure to agree to this statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USA Jobs resumes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙