Position Title
MATERIALS EXAMINER AND IDENTIFIER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12942055-AR-26-155 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION
1.
Are you a current Permanent (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) full-time Dual Status Army National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1 or 2). 

Lateral requests must be a current full-time Tennessee National Guard PERMANENT (Tenures 1, 2 or 3) on-board employee, in the same occupational series, same pay grade or higher and meet the qualification requirements for the position blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, or training which demonstrate the ability to distinguish between closely related or similar items, ability to follow procedures, ability to sort materials by type, and skill in the use of hand tools?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 12 months specialized experience or training identifying and sorting a variety of complex materials and equipment; experience receiving materials and equipment, recording, and placing items in proper storage areas; experience preparing all items for shipment using appropriate agency instructions; expert knowledge of specialized handling, storing, disposal, and safety procedures related to hazardous materials to ensure adherence to governing regulatory guidance, policies, and procedures; experience in mathematical equations; experience interpreting and using Federal Supply Catalogs, military and manufacturing catalogs, and technical and agency manuals; experience using and operating forklifts and motor vehicles?
 Yes
 No


3.
What types of materials do you have experience with?


3a.
Do you have experience with hazardous materials?


4.
Describe your experience with inventory management.


4a.
How do you ensure accuracy?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙