Position Title
HR SPEC (EMPL BEN/EMPLOYEE BENEFITS) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12977177-AF-26-029 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 Yes
 No


Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (JFHQ - HRO) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (JFHQ - HRO) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Basic Qualification that you possess.
 I HAVE 1) skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately, 2) the ability to write English in reports and presentation formats, 3) the ability to communicate -orally and in writing- clearly and effectively, 4) skill in presenting formal training presentations and briefings, 5) the ability to assess body language and perceive emotional and/or distress levels, and 6) skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material.
 I DO NOT possess ALL of the factors described above.


2.

Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201 position.
 I HAVE a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.
 I DO NOT HAVE a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201-12 Supervisory HR Specialist (Employee Benefits).
 I HAVE 1) 12 months of non-supervisory GS-0201-12 qualifications, PLUS have 12 months of career broadening human resources program experiences in leading, planning and scheduling work in a manner that promoted smooth flow and even distribution of assigned work requirements, 2) experience that included guiding employees on human resources (military or civilian) program tasks, 3) experience in conducting employee performance evaluations and mentoring employees; managing resources and budgets; and directing assigned work, or leading the employees on program tasks, inspections, exercises, deployments, and/or mobilizations, 4) experience in effectively and efficiently planning and scheduling work, 5) experience in leading people and human resources personnel activities that included directing and assigning tasks and projects, 6) experience in structuring assignments to create viable procedures that resulted in measured and improved task processes, 7) experience in creating and implementing improvements in mentoring programs and strategies, executing training applications and career development that resulted in the employees’ increased performance values in quality work, timeliness considerations, and work efficiencies, 8) experience in working within merit principles, equal employment, and affirmative action guidelines.
 I DO NOT have the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙