Position Title
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST (SPECTRUM)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12892657-AR-26-045 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E9, or  a Warrant Officer in the grade of WO1 to CW5, or an Officer in the grade of O1 to O5 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Deputy Chief of Staff G6
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Deputy Chief of Staff G6
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
All series personnel must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level. Experiences gained through military technical training schools (restricted to one of the identified/allowed compatible military skills) are included in the one year on-the-job experience. An applicant must have a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade. Do you have these experiences?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 36 months experience managing the frequency spectrum, radio, secure communications, and communications security (COMSEC) programs of the state National Guard? Do you have skills and working knowledge of acquisitions, operations, technical acceptance, installation, testing, modification, and replacement of analog and digital telecommunications equipment, services, and systems? Do you have skills and knowledge of a wide range of communications concepts, principles and practices, such as, HF and VHF radio transmissions; Satellite communications; and Secure Telephone Unit requirements?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No, I have not.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙