Position Title
Student Cooperative - Office of Audit (Multiple Directorates - Paid)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-26-129B-13000576-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This announcement is open to U.S. Citizens who are students currently enrolled full or part-time in an accredited college or university program, classified academically ranked by semester hours as Sophomore, Junior, Senior, or Graduate student.  All others are ineligible on this announcement. 
Do you meet this eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Bethesda, MD
 C. Woburn, MA
 D. Raleigh, NC
 E. Arlington, VA


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Current Student Requirement:

Are you a current Sophomore, Junior, Senior, or Graduate Student enrolled full or half-time in an accredited college or university program? (You must submit transcripts that show currently or upcoming enrolled)

Please Note: These opportunities are only open to current students who are scheduled to graduate no sooner than May 2027.
 Yes
 No


2.
GPA Requirement:

What is your current GPA on a 4.0 scale? (Your transcripts must reflect your current GPA.)
 3.5 to 4.0
 3.0 to 3.49
 2.75 to 2.99
 2.5 to 2.74
 2.49 and below


3.
Office of Audit - Degree/Major Requirement:

The Office of Audit Student Cooperative position has specific requirements. To qualify, applicants must be enrolled in a major such as accounting, auditing, finance, or other business-related, technical-related, or government-related degrees (see below).


List of Related and Accepted Majors:
Business Related, including but not limited to:
Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to:
Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to:
Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.

Select the option that best describes how you meet the qualification requirement for this position.


Important Note: You must upload transcripts and/or supporting documentation to verify your selection.
 I am enrolled in a business-related degree such as Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc. I will submit a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 I am enrolled in a government-related degree such as Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc. I will submit a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 I am enrolled in a technical-related degree such as Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc. I will submit a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 I do not meet the major/degree requirements described above.


4.
Degree/Major Listing:

What degree are you currently seeking? If you have a concentration, please list that here in addition to the degree and anticipated graduation date (Month/Year).


5.
Software/Application Requirement:


Do you have experience with computer software applications such as Office 365, Microsoft Office, Word, Excel, etc.? (Your resume must reflect where, when, and how you gained this experience.)
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
In-Office Requirement:

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment.
This position adheres to our agency's telework policy.
This position is not remote (non-negotiable).
Relocation is not provided.
Able to work year-round, part-time while enrolled (not summer or fall only program).
Applicants must reside within commuting distance of the assigned office location or be willing to relocate at their own expense.

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


7.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation:

Important Resume Update: Your resume must not exceed two (2) pages. You will no longer be considered for this announcement if your resume exceeds the two-page limit. It is essential that your resume and supporting documentation provide sufficient information to substantiate your qualifications for the announced position (categorize as "Resume"). Additional guidance on writing a federal resume can be found at: USAJOBS Help Center - How do I write a resume for a federal job?

Make sure your page margins are 0.5 inches. The recommended font styles are Sans-Serif, Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open Sans, Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noto Sans. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages.

This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume - must not exceed two (2) pages
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


8.
Certification of Accuracy:
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙