Position Title
Supervisory Special Agent (Special Agent in Charge)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
26-FO-ST-12813333-DB Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 08, 2025 to Oct 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Dallas, TX


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
1. ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 Yes
 No


2.
2. The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
3. Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 Yes
 No


4.
4. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙