Position Title
Supervisory Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12908191-26-KM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Program Specialist (Veterans Experience Officer) position with the Lexington VA Health Care Center. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Definitions:

Specialized Experience: Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be credible, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Applicants who have the 1 year of appropriate specialized experience, as indicated in the table, are not required by this standard to have general experience, education above the high school level, or any additional specialized experience to meet the minimum qualification requirements.
Time-in-Grade Restrictions: The service requirement than an employee, who has held a General Schedule (GS) position under non-temporary appointment in the competitive or excepted service within the previous 52 weeks, must meet prior to being eligible for promotion through merit promotion procedures


1.
To qualify for the Supervisory Program Specialist position at the GS-12 Grade Level, you must meet the following requirement(s):

GS-12 Supervisory Program Specialist -

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the Supervisory Program Specialist (Veterans Experience Officer), GS-0301-12 position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized Experience for this position includes the following:
Knowledge of the mission, organization, programs, and requirements of healthcare delivery systems to plan, organize and implement an exceptional Veterans Experience Program.
Knowledge of Patient Rights and Responsibilities, Veterans benefits, clinical appeals process, caregiver appeals process, etc., to act on behalf of the facility Director to resolve problems, expedite services or implement necessary corrective measures with established facility policies and where appropriate through committee participation.
Knowledge of the Medallia, PAT, and VSSC data sets for measurement of patient experience and satisfaction
Ability to communicate to exchange meaningful information among individuals and groups in face-to-face or telephone interactions using various visual and auditory methods to learn, inform, persuade, inspire, motivate, and influence along with presenting information and ideas clearly and in writing to conduct internal and external business.
Ability to analyze problems using qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques and skill in conducting interviews with supervisors and employees with the ability to present both oral and written recommendations concerning physicals, drug testing, and medical material.
Ability to demonstrate administration and management skills, with thorough knowledge of agency administrative practices such as correspondence control practices, offices processes, regulations and rules in keeping with senior management decision makers affecting the administration and delivery of healthcare services.
Ability to translate management goals and objectives into well-coordinated and controlled work operations; assess qualifications, abilities and continuing educations needs of staff and determine appropriate resources to meet those needs; ability to manage/supervise; i.e., plan, organize, delegate, direct, control and review activities of the program and coordinate with multidisciplinary team members and subordinates.
Ability to establish and maintain effective relationships with and gain the cooperation of management, co-workers, maintenance and operations including peers at VHA facilities, on complex and controversial issues.
Knowledge and recognition of the different functions and motivation of various groups in the healthcare system and ability to communicate effectively to resolve problems and coordinate programs.
Ability to plan, organize and monitor work, set priorities, conduct studies/evaluations, determine short or long-term goals and strategies to achieve them; coordinate, evaluate, analyze and manages projects.
Knowledge of the components for ensuring an exceptional Veterans Experience Program is in place with processes to implement the latest developments in customer service; service recovery, community outreach and patient advocacy are deployed and consistent with VA/VHA, VISN 9 and Lexington VA Healthcare Systems standards and criteria, national codes and relevant Joint Commission requirements.
Skill in the application of interpersonal relationships sufficient to provide advisory and consultant services to Veterans, caregivers, stakeholders, internal service partners and community liaisons.
Skill in the application of providing consulting services to others on VHA Veterans Experience expectations, criteria, and standards.
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to the GS-11 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade 12.
 Yes - I have one (1) full year of specialized experience as mentioned above AND understand that this experience must be reflected in my resume.
 No - I do not have one (1) full year of specialized experience as mentioned above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


Resume Reminder Your resume must include the following for each job listed:
Job title and grade level/salary. *To show that you meet the experience requirements, you must document grades you have held and how long you have held them.*
Duties (you must include enough detailed information to support your specialized experience)
Month, day and year start/end dates (e.g. 04/02/2007 to 04/13/2008)
Hours worked per week for all jobs listed
Full Name and address of Employer
Name of Supervisor or Contact name
Complete phone number of Supervisor/Contact


SF-50 Reminder: (if you are a current Federal Employee or if you are a former Federal Employee)

The SF-50 must identify:
Position Title
Series Grade/Step
Tenure
Type of service (Competitive or Excepted)

If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status. 
* Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee
* An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.*


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙