Position Title
Wildland Firefighter
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
MR-26-12841829-CM-FDHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Tuesday, December 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Roy, MT
 B. Columbia, NC
 C. Austwell, TX
 D. Los Fresnos, TX
 E. Travis County, TX


Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience


1.
Specialized Experience for GW-07
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-06 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in the public or private sectors). Examples of specialized experience may include: lay out and organize lines of attack for a wildland fire; locate and construct firelines; dispatch fire crews and provides onsite direction and support to crew members on the fireline; ensure availability of equipment, water, and supplies; train others in equipment safety, maintenance and use; conduct informal on-the-job fire training sessions; distribute literature and explain the fire prevention plan to the general public; use computer software for database creation, management, and manipulation (e.g. Microsoft Access, WIMS, Fire Base, etc.) This experience is clearly supported in my resume.
 I do not have the experience shown above.


This position is subject to the qualifications and additional required training specified in the Interagency Fire Program Management (IFPM) Qualifications Standards and Guide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you currently qualified as a Primary Core Requirement: Engine Boss (ENGB) OR Crew Boss (CRWB) AND Secondary Core Requirement: Incident Commander, Type 5 (ICT5) AND Training: Portable Pumps and Water Use (S211).

(You must provide a copy of your Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record or other equivalent documentation which verifies you meet the required NWCG minimum qualifications for this IFPM position. Failure to provide this documentation by the closing dated of the announcement will result in you being rated as not qualified).
 Yes
 No


Age Restriction


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


3.
This position is a Primary Firefighter position and is covered under Special Fire Retirement. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must not have reached age 37 at the time of appointment, unless proof is provided of prior Federal service in another covered position, or you are a preference eligible veteran. If you are a preference eligible veteran, you MAY be eligible for this position after your 37th birthday.

 I will not have reached the age of 37 at the time of appointment.
 I have been in the Federal service in another covered position and will provide a copy of my SF-50 showing I was covered under Special Retirement.
 I am a preference eligible veteran and I am eligible to apply beyond my 37th birthday.
 I will be over 37 at the time of appointment, I have never been covered under Special Retirement, and I am not a preference eligible veteran.


Driver's License


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to hold and maintain a valid state driver's license throughout their employment. If selected, prior to entering on duty you will need to provide a copy of your valid driver's license before your appointment. Do you currently have a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


Certification


5.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙