Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-IMP-26-12845348 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, December 5, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of OI and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of OI and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each task in the following groups, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one letter for each item. Failure to support your answers to this questionnaire in your resume may result in a loss of consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you successfully completed the Criminal Investigator Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) or an approved equivalent?

 Yes
 No


2.
To apply for the Criminal Investigator position, applicants must be at least 21 years of age and not yet 37 years of age; OR preference-eligible veteran; OR have worked or be currently working in a Federal law enforcement position. From the description below, select the response that best describes you meeting this requirement.

 I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement.
 I am not subject to the age restriction because I am serving or have previously served in a civilian (not military) Federal Law Enforcement Officer position. (You must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement position. Please refer to the information regarding SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action in the "Required Documents" section in the announcement.)
 I am not subject to the age restriction because I am a preference-eligible veteran. (You must submit a DD-214 and VA Document. Please refer to the information regarding "Required Documents" section in the announcement.)
 I will be 37 years or older by the closing date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a civilian Federal Law Enforcement Officer position.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the Supervisory Criminal Investigator, GS-1811-14 position.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which provided the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: (1) Coordinating and implementing investigative programs (2) Providing leadership, oversight and direction to staff routinely through participation in activities such as workgroups, teams, training, or special projects and (3) Providing briefings and verbal reports on program areas to senior officials in addition to making recommendations on program weaknesses
 I do not have the experience described above in option A.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731 ). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙