Position Title
FRONT DESK ASSOCIATE
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12835875 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 17, 2025 to Tuesday, December 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Please be sure to answer all questions or you will be disqualified.


1.
Are you willing and able to work an irregular schedule, which may include weekends, holidays, rotating shifts, different locations, recall to duty, overtime, and /or reporting to work in inclement weather or times when other employees may be excused ?
 Yes, I am willing and able to work an irregular schedule, which may include weekends, holidays, rotating shifts, different locations, recall to duty, overtime, and /or reporting to work in inclement weather or times when other employees may be excused.
 No, I am not willing and able to work an irregular schedule, which may include weekends, holidays, rotating shifts, different locations, recall to duty, overtime, and /or reporting to work in inclement weather or times when other employees may be excused .


2.

How much experience with front desk work (i.e reservations, lodging front desk, and or customer service) have you documented on your resume'.
 2 or more years documented experience.
 1-2 years documented experience.
 Less than 1 year
 No documented experience


3.
Have you documented 6 or more months of experience working in lodging operations on your resume'?
 Yes, I have documented at least 6 months experience in lodging experience on my resume’
 No, I have not documented at least 6 months experience in lodging experience on my resume.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙