Position Title
OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-26-12840122-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Saturday, December 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


SHORT ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Research Analyst at the GS-12 or GS-13 grade levels or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in Operations Research. (NOTE: You MUST submit a copy of your transcripts showing your name, the name of the school issuing the degree, the list of courses, the degree awarded, and the date the degree was conferred.)
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher with at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours were in calculus. (NOTE: You MUST submit a copy of your transcripts showing your name, the name of the school issuing the degree, the list of courses, the degree awarded, and the date the degree was conferred.)
 My education is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of experience. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Creditable specialized experience includes:

 For GS-12 consideration: I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-11) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: working closely with a supervisor or team leader to conduct research, reviews, and analysis, and development studies of operational issues; using advanced data visualization, modeling, and data science methods to validate study findings and conclusions; utilizing scientific inquiry in the supervised development of mathematical models and computer programs to support assigned projects, and studies.
 For GS-13 consideration: I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: performing research, reviews, and analysis, and conducts development studies of operational issues; determining sources of data, plans, and using advanced data visualization, modeling, and data science methods to validate study findings and conclusions; utilizing scientific inquiry in the independent development of mathematical models and computer programs to support assigned projects, and studies.
 I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙