Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12948201-26-KC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
(Minimum Qualifications) Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work at the GS-07 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
To qualify at the GS-07 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level or higher and/or meet educational requirements or a combination of specialized experience and education.
Specialized Experience:
• Administrative Operations - manage communication flow & office supplies.
• Timekeeping / Payroll / VATAS - payroll operations and understanding of various leave types.
• Proficiency with computer applications
• Experience in writing formal letters and action item responses.
• Oral and written communication skills and ability to communicate orally and in writing to obtain and provide information related to organizational, administrative and procedural matters.

OR
Education: Successfully completed one full year of graduate level education in a field related to this position that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. (transcripts required).
Or
Superior Academic Achievement: Completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree in a curriculum that is qualifying (i.e. hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as course work in health care administration) for the position to be filled and I meet one of the following: Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university or major subdivision; A grade-point average of "B" (a GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; A grade point average of "B+" (a GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. For a list of recognized honor societies please visit http://www.achsnatl.org/quick_link.asp.
Note: Transcripts are required.
OR
Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Only education beyond a bachelor's degree may be used to qualify for the GS-07 level. Note: Transcripts are required.

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 or higher in the Federal Service.
 Yes, I have one (1) full year of graduate level education directly related to the position NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials.
 Yes, I have a bachelor's degree with superior academic achievement. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described above, and graduate education as described above which totals in excess of the first year or an excess of 18 credit hours (transcripts required).
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


2.
(Minimum Qualifications) Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work at the GS-09 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
To qualify at the GS-09 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher and/or meet educational requirements or a combination of specialized experience and education.
Specialized Experience:
• Prepares correspondence, develops policies and procedures, prepares results of studies.
• Drafts human resources and budget documents and reports, creating and managing the service budget
• Management principles, organizational theory and techniques of analysis and evaluation, administrative practices and procedures to identify and resolve procedural issues and problems.
• Strong written and verbal communication skills
• Skilled in operation of computer terminals and other Microsoft office automation equipment and software.

OR
Education: Successfully completed a Master's or equivalent, or 2 years of progressively higher-level education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B or J.D.in a field related to this position that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE (Transcripts are required).
OR
Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience (beyond the first graduate year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Note: Transcripts are required.

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 Yes, I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B. or J.D. NOTE (Transcripts are required.
 Yes, I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed some graduate level education (in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours) and some specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-7 grade level but less than one year, to meet total experience requirements for this position. I have computed the percentage of these requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required. (Transcript AND Details of your work history must be provided in your resume; failure to supply sufficient details may result in not meeting the basic requirements for this position)
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙