Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12913638-AR-T526-5030 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question(s):


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicant must possess the following experience:

General Experience:
Experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Specialized Experience:
GS-11 and above - 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants must have prior experience working for/in the National Guard or prior military membership.

Do you meet this requirement and do your supporting documents verify/support that this requirement is/has been met?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙