Position Title
MWR Recreation Assistant (Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13055131 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Recreation Assistant (Pool Lifeguard) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and all required certification documents are included with the application. Failure to provide required certifications will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Which of the following do you possess to meet the basic requirements of the 0189 Recreation Assistant series? If using education to qualify, transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application.
 I have at least 6 (six) months of general recreation experience and at least 6 (six) months of specialized experience in a lifeguard capacity.
 I have 2 (two) years of education above high school with courses related to recreation (transcripts must be provided if selecting this option).
 I have an equivalent combination of education with courses related to recreation and specialized experience (transcripts must be provided if selecting this option).
 I have none of these.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have current and valid Lifeguard Training Certificate, CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Healthcare Providers, First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator Certification and Blood Borne Pathogens certification (must have all and provide all certifications with application)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please choose the response below that best describes your pool lifeguard experience.
 I have 5+ years of experience as a pool lifeguard.
 I have 3-5 years of experience as a pool lifeguard.
 I have 2-3 years of experience as a pool lifeguard.
 I have 1-2 years of experience as a pool lifeguard.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as a pool lifeguard.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙