Position Title
Senior Accounting Technician (Lead)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions Of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current CNRH (Commander Navy Region Hawaii) NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you currently employed in the United States government workforce as a federal employee (e.g., NAF or APF)?

If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a federal employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment.  This questionnaire is a requirement for your application package and answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as necessary.  The resume and supporting documents you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please ensure you read the questions thoroughly and review your responses for accuracy before you submit your assessment.  Failure to respond to the questions(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have at least 2 years of general experience in (e.g. account structure, accounting terminology, detecting coding input errors and making corrective entries consistent with charts of accounts in an automated system) OR possess an Associate's degree in Accounting, Finance, Business Administration, or in a field directly related?
 Yes, I have an Associate's degree in a field as described above.
 Yes, I have experience as described above.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Do you have at least 2 years specialized experience in (e.g. purchase orders, calls against BPAs, consignment agreements, service contracts, entertainment contracts, credit cards, etc)?
 Yes
 No


3.
What is your experience with automated accounting systems? MUST BE DOCUMENTED ON RESUME
 3 or more years
 1-2 years
 less than 1 year
 No experience


4.
Do you have documented experience working with calculators and computer applications?
 Yes
 No


5.
What is your experience processing accounting transactions?
 5 or more years
 2-4 years
 Less than 1 year
 No experience


6.
What is your experience analyzing and reconciling accounts?
 5 or more years'
 2-4 years'
 Less than 1 year
 No experience


7.
Please mark the forms or processes you have documented experience with.
 Inventory
 Invoices
 Purchase orders
 Transfer documents
 Journal Entries
 Point of sale transactions (POS)
 Vouchers
 Daily activity record summaries
 I have no experience with any of the forms and processes listed above.


8.
This role requires you to independently process difficult technical tasks and handle problems using past training or accepted practices.  How many years of experience do you have working with or solving complex accounting problems without needing step-by-step guidance from your immediate supervisor?
 I have 1 year of experience working with or solving complex accounting problems without needing step-by-step guidance from your immediate supervisor?
 I have 2 years of experience working with or solving complex accounting problems without needing step-by-step guidance from your immediate supervisor?
 I have 3 or more years of experience working with or solving complex accounting problems without needing step-by-step guidance from your immediate supervisor?
 I have less than 1 year of experience working with or solving complex accounting problems without needing step-by-step guidance from your immediate supervisor?


9.
Your supervisor will set objectives and deadlines but will not review your day-to-day methods in detail.  Do you have experience ensuring accuracy, technical soundness, and policy compliance in your own work before submitting it for final review to your supervisor?
 I have 3 or more years of experience ensuring accuracy, technical soundness, and policy compliance in my work before submitting it for final review to my supervisor?
 I have 2 years of experience ensuring accuracy, technical soundness, and policy compliance in your own work before submitting it for final review to my supervisor?
 I have 1 year of experience ensuring accuracy, technical soundness, and policy compliance in your own work before submitting it for final review to my supervisor?
 I have less than 1 year of experience ensuring accuracy, technical soundness, and policy compliance in your own work before submitting it for final review to my supervisor?


10.
How many years of experience do you have managing or leading a team?
 I have 3 or more years of experience managing and/or leading a team.
 I have 2 years of experience managing and/or leading a team.
 I have 1 year of experience managing and/or leading a team.
 I have less than 1 year of experience managing and/or leading a team.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙