Position Title
SECURITY SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12869684-AF-26-014 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 21, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-08 grade level that demonstrates your ability to plan, organize, and direct security police activities to support activities such as; security, resource protection, law enforcement, and information security programs; provide installation security and coordinate, implement, and provide training for the police officer force of the organization; compile, analyze and summarize information on security requirements and recommends a course of action to meet program objectives; and consider applicable regulations, procedures and alternative methods of implementing and monitoring security requirements? The specialized experience must also demonstrate your ability to resolve a variety of security problems, questions regarding situations such as those where responsibility has been assigned for monitoring established security programs, and contributes to high security effectiveness of programs and facilities requiring such protective services.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you been convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence?
 Yes
 No


3.
In detail, explain your experience developing and monitoring the accomplishment of security forces training plans and obtains and develops training aids and materials.


4.
In detail, explain your experience managing and overseeing the installation's ground weapons training and maintenance program.


5.
In detail, explain your experience conducting training classes for security forces personnel.


6.
In detail, explain your experience performing and enforcing the full spectrum of Police Officer duties within an assigned federal jurisdiction.


7.
In detail, explain your experience training and/or certifying personnel on proper Small Arms/Light Weapons handling procedures, marksmanship fundamentals, weapon employment, and weapon safety procedures.


8.
In detail, explain your experience supervising and coaching personnel during live-fire operations on marksmanship fundamentals, proper weapon handling procedures, correcting stoppages, weapon/range safety and munitions safety procedures.


9.
In detail, explain your experience establishing, updating, and maintaining applicable records of various types associated with qualifications.


10.
In detail, explain your experience conducting training classes for security forces personnel, preparing lesson plans, and teaching training courses for personnel in various functional activities.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙