Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Authorization Quality Review Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
330-26-PA-12980649-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



Area of Consideration:
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Milwaukee, WI Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) CTAP eligible.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Veterans Service Representative (AQRS) GS-0996-12
 I am currently employed by the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 My status is not described in the options above.


Time in Grade Requirement:
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-IN-Grade requirement for Veterans Service Representative (AQRS) GS-0996-12.


2.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks of time in grade in the federal service at the GS-11 grade level or higher?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-11 grade level or at a higher grade.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of time at the GS-11 grade level or at a higher grade.


Specialized Experience:
The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


3.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Veterans Service Representative (AQRS) GS-0996-12 position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-12 or other equivalent pay systems 1) Conducting focused evaluations and reviews to determine authorization quality and accuracy, 2) Providing advisory services to management via preparation and presentation of quality trend information, 3) Developing training strategies and materials to address deficiencies and/or conducting training activities, 4) Analyzing performance deficiencies and quality trends to identify knowledge/skill gaps, 5) Providing quality-review services, feedback, and guidance to staff in order to correct unsatisfactory performance.
 My experience is not described in statement A above


VERIFICATION STATEMENT:
Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this occupational questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above
 No, I do not certify the information provided above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙