Position Title
Supervisory Park Ranger (Interpretation)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1629-FRRI-26-12987535-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of The Interior employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation for the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA) eligibility, which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations, for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.
For more information, review Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of the Interior employee at the same grade level (or higher). All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.


2.
Select the statement that most closely matches your experience as defined in the vacancy announcement for the Supervisory Park Ranger (Interpretation) GS-0025-11 grade level.

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level as described in the vacancy announcement, and it is clearly written in my resume. Examples of specialized experience for this announcement includes activities such as: supervising a park education and interpretive program; serving as a lead interpretive ranger, educator or teacher in a park, historic site, recreation, or conservation area; management or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of policy related to the education/interpretation programs in park areas or similar operations; or other similar work.
 I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Related fields of study include natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources.) You must submit transcripts.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first two years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. You must submit transcripts.
 None of the above accurately reflects my qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙