Position Title
Supervisory Housing Manager(Operations Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12883102 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 09, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
Incumbent may be considered 'ALPHA' personnel, and therefore subject to work during inclement weather or other states of emergency. Will you be able to work under these circumstances?
 Yes
 No


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Supervisory Housing Manager (Operations Manager), NF-1173-04. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience/education.
 I have 3+ years of documented experience in a position related to a housing/apartment /lodging operation.
 I have at least one full year of graduate-level education and at least one year of specialized experience in a position related to a housing/apartment/lodging operation.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree in Business Administration/Management, Real Estate/Property Management, Public Administration, Finance/Accounting, Organizational, or in related field.
 I have none of the education/experience mentioned above.


2.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience in a supervisory role.
 I have 2+ years of documented experience in a supervisory role.
 I have between 1-2 years of documented experience in a supervisory role.
 I have less than 1-year of documented experience in a supervisory role.
 I have no documented experience in a supervisory role.


3.
How many years of experience formulating procedures for the operation and management of housing programs (e.g., family housing units, dormitories units, unaccompanied units, military lodging)?
 I have 3+ years of documented experience formulating procedures for the operation and management of housing programs.
 I have 1-3 years of documented experience formulating procedures for the operation and management of housing programs.
 I have less than 1-year of documented experience formulating procedures for the operation and management of housing programs.
 I have no documented experience formulating procedures for the operation and management of housing programs.


4.
How many years of experience evaluating the performance of subordinates to make determinations on awards, promotions, demotions, reassignments, or disciplinary action required?
 I have 3+ years documented experience evaluating the performance of subordinates to make determinations on awards, promotions, demotions, reassignments, or disciplinary action required.
 I have 1-3 years documented experience evaluating the performance of subordinates to make determinations on awards, promotions, demotions, reassignments, or disciplinary action required.
 I have less than 1-year documented experience evaluating the performance of subordinates to make determinations on awards, promotions, demotions, reassignments, or disciplinary action required.
 I have no experience documented experience evaluating the performance of subordinates to make determinations on awards, promotions, demotions, reassignments, or disciplinary action required.


5.
How many years of experience do you have preparing required financial and non-financial reports for documentation purposes?
 I have 3+ years documented experience preparing required financial and non-financial reports for documentation purposes.
 I have 1-3 years documented experience preparing required financial and non-financial reports for documentation purposes.
 I have less than 1-year documented experience preparing required financial and non-financial reports for documentation purposes.
 I have no experience documented experience preparing required financial and non-financial reports for documentation purposes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙