Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12947440-26-KF Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education and/or Experience Requirement: You must meet at least one of the following education and/or experience requirements listed below:

(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist;
OR

(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field;

OR(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.

NOTES:

Degree Accreditation: (1) The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. (2) Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association (https://www.aota.org/) website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.

Foreign Graduates: Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the degree accreditation requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.

Creditable Experience: Experience is only creditable if it is post-graduate experience as a professional OT directly related to the duties to be performed. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to professional occupational therapy experience at the next lower level.

Select the option that best describes your education and/or experience requirement:
 I have a bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I have a bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I have a master’s degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I'm a foreign graduate, I meet the degree and/or experience requirements for this position, and have a current, full, active and unrestricted license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 I do not meet the education and/or experience requirements listed above.


3.
Certification Requirement: Candidates must possess a current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification as an Occupational Therapist. NOTE: all certified applicants must provide proof of certification.

Exception: Occupational Therapy graduates from an approved occupational therapy program, who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements, but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state licensure, may be appointed, pending certification and/or licensure, as a graduate OT on a full-time temporary appointment not-to exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2). Graduates may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, certification and licensure is required. Failure to obtain required credentials by the prescribed date will result in termination of employment.

Do you currently hold, or will you hold, a NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist?
 I currently hold a NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist.
 I am an occupational therapy graduate from an approved occupational therapy program, I meet the minimum qualification requirements of this position, and I'm currently working towards obtaining my NBCOT certification. I understand, that if selected, I can only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level under a temporary appointment not-to exceed two years, and if I fail to obtain my certification, it may result in termination of employment.
 No. I do not meet the certification requirement for this position.


4.
Licensure Requirement: Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. NOTE: All licensed applicants must provide proof of licensure.

Exception: Occupational Therapy graduates from an approved occupational therapy program, who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements, but who do not possess NBCOT certification and/or state licensure, may be appointed, pending certification and/or licensure, as a graduate OT on a full-time temporary appointment not-to exceed two years under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2). Graduates may only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level and may not be promoted/converted to the GS-11 level until licensure and/or certification is obtained. For grades levels at or above the developmental GS-11 grade level, certification and licensure is required. Failure to obtain required credentials by the prescribed date will result in termination of employment.

Do you currently hold, or will you hold, a full and unrestricted license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia
 I currently hold a full and unrestricted license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 I am an occupational therapy graduate from an approved occupational therapy program, I meet the minimum qualification requirements of this position, and I'm currently working towards obtaining a full and unrestricted license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. I understand, that if selected, I can only be appointed at the GS-9 grade level under a temporary appointment not-to exceed two years, and if I fail to obtain my state licensure, it may result in termination of employment.
 No. I do not meet the licensure requirement for this position.


5.
For applicants that are currently NBCOT certified, please indicate your NBCOT ID Number and expiration date. For applicants that are not certified or licensed, please respond with N/A.


6.
For applicants that currently possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia, please indicate your licensure number, state where license was issued, and expiration date. For applicants that are not certified or licensed, please respond with N/A.


Grade Determination: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


7.
Occupational Therapist, GS-9 (Entry Level): Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


8.
Occupational Therapist, GS-11: In addition to meeting the basic requirements of this position, to qualify for the GS-11 you must meet the following requirements:

(1) Education, Experience, or Licensure.
a) Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled;OR

b) Three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field; OR

c) Doctorate in occupational therapy

(2) In addition to the education, experience, or licensure requirements listed above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

a) Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.

b) Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.

c) Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.

d) Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.

e) Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.

f) Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.

g) Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.

NOTE: All KSAs must be clearly demonstrated in the resume (assumptions will not be made).Do you meet the above stated requirements?
 Yes
 No


9.
Occupational Therapist, GS-12: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-12 you must meet the following requirements:

(1) Education, Experience, and Licensure: Completion of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

(2) In addition to the education, experience, or licensure requirements listed above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

a) Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice. Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.

b) Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.

c) Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.

d) Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment.

e) Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.

NOTE: All KSAs must be clearly demonstrated in the resume (assumptions will not be made).

Do you meet the above stated requirements?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙