Position Title
Patent Examiner (Computer Engineering) Direct-Hire Authority (DHA)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
PATS-DCOM-26-13053497-DHA
Open Period
Oct 05, 2026 to Oct 25, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 7
 9
 11
2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 Email
 Facebook
 Instagram
 LinkedIn
 @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 Reddit
 Google Reviews
 Handshake University Platform
 Monster
 Indeed
 Glassdoor
 USAJOBS
 University Job Board
 Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 Friend
 USPTO Employee
 Professional Society / Organization
 State Bar Association
 University Career Fair
 Conference
 University Career Placement Office
 Virtual Job Fair
 USPTO Information Session
 USPTO Jobs web pages
 USPTO website
 Other
3.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No
4.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
 I am not a current Federal civilian employee
 Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
 Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
 Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
 Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
 Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
 Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
 Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
 Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
 Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
 Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
 Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
 Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
 Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
 Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
 Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
 Other
5.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.
6.
Are you currently receiving or are you scheduled to receive severance pay as a result of a Reduction in Force (RIF) from a Federal Agency?
 Yes
 No
7.
Do you have any education/experience in intellectual property?
 Yes
 No
8.
Are you a current or former Patent Examiner at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)?
 Yes
 No
9.
If you answered "Yes", to Questionnaire #3, please list your dates of employment at the USPTO. If you answered "No" to Questionnaire #3, type N/A.
10.
Have you passed the Patent Bar Exam?
 Yes
 No
11.
If you answered "Yes" to Questionnaire #1, please indicate where you obtained your education in intellectual property and/or experience in planning and conducting field of search for patent applications or in reviewing or analyzing patent applications. Please select all that apply.
 USPTO externships
 Externships
 Internships
 Patent searcher
 Patent law clerk
 JD with specialty in patent law
 Coursework
 Other
 I have no experience or education in intellectual property.
12.
If you answered "Yes" please provide the date you passed the Patent Bar Exam. If you answered "No", type N/A.
13.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service system?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable
14.
Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No
15.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity? Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No
16.
Below is a list of technical areas of experience. Please check all that apply to you.
 Arithmetic Processing
 Super Intelligence
 Computer Architecture
 Computer System Initialization, Power Control, Clocking and Synchronization
 Control Systems
 Configuration Circuits
 Interactive Video Distribution Systems
 Memory
 Multiplex, Telecommunications, 5G, Wireless Communications, Routing, Switching, Access Techniques, Cellular and Data Communications
 Network Security
 Structural Modeling and Simulation
 Task Management / Video Compression
 None of the Above
17.
The GPA is rounded to one decimal place (2.95 = 3.0 and 2.94 = 2.9). The final transcript must cover the period being used to determine the GPA.
 3.5-4.0
 3.0-3.4
 2.9 or below
18.
What is the highest level of education you have received?
 Two Years of College
 Associate degree
 Three Years of College
 Four Years of College
 Bachelor's Degree
 Post Bachelor's Degree
 First Professional Degree
 Post-First Professional
 Master's Degree
 Post Master's Degree
 Sixth-Year Degree
 Post-Sixth Year
 Doctorate Degree
 Post-Doctorate
19.
What is the name of college or university your highest level of education was received? (Please list complete school name)
20.
When was your highest level of education completed? (Please list complete year)
21.
What is the degree major for your highest received degree earned?
Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
PE Computer Engr Min Quals
.
The following questions apply to grade levels GS-07, GS-09, and GS-11. Select the response that best describes your experience and/or education related to the basic qualification requirements of a Patent Examiner (Professional Engineering). Refer to the "Qualifications and Evaluations" section of the job announcement for a detailed explanation of the basic qualification requirements for this position.
1.
Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience related to the Basic Qualification Requirements for a Patent Examiner (Professional Engineering), GS-1224.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions.
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program.
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)
 I will complete the qualifying education within 9 months from the date of application.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.
2.
Candidates for the GS-7 grade level - In addition to the Basic Requirement of the positions included in the vacancy announcement, choose the answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the qualification requirements for this position: You must have: (A) One year of graduate-level education from an accredited college and/or university in an engineering field of study, OR (B) Superior Academic Achievement, OR (C) One year of specialized experience, OR (D) A combination of education and experience in college-level education, training, and/or technical experience, OR (E) Successful completion of a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering.
 I have at least one-year of graduate-level education.
 Superior Academic Achievement- I meet 1 of the following: (1) In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR (2) a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, OR (3) a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, OR (4) Honor society membership.
 I have at least one year of experience applying basic engineering, biological science, physics, or scientific principles, theories, concepts, and methodologies used in the evaluation of technology; assisting in the collection of and recognizing discrepancies in data.
 I have a combination of graduate level education that is less than 1 year and less than 1 year of specialized experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 Successful completion of a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
3.
Candidates for the GS-9 grade level - In addition to the Basic Requirement of the positions included in the vacancy announcement, choose the answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the qualification requirements for this position: You must have: (A) Two years of graduate-level education from an accredited college and/or university in an engineering field of study, OR (B) One year of specialized experience, OR (C) A combination of education and experience in college-level education, training, and/or technical experience, OR (D) A combination of less than 2 years of graduate education and less than 1 year of specialized experience, OR (E) A combination of superior academic achievement and 1 year of appropriate professional experience.
 I have at least two years of graduate-level education leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in an engineering curriculum from an accredited college and/or university in the fields of study as described in the Basic Qualification Requirements of this job announcement. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study (If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours is considered an academic year of graduate study).
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, interpreting and applying intermediate engineering, biological science, physics, scientific principles, theories, concepts, and methodologies used in the evaluation of technology; participating in planning and conducting research; applying appropriate references to the claimed invention.
 I have a combination of education with at least a bachelor's degree in engineering and experience applying engineering principles and theories in the engineering field.
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education, that is beyond the first year of progressive graduate study, and professional engineering experience.
 I have a combination of superior academic achievement and 1 year of appropriate professional engineering experience.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
4.
Candidates for the GS-11 grade level - In addition to the Basic Requirement of the positions included in the vacancy announcement, choose the answer that best describes your education, experience or combination of education and experience as related to the qualification requirements for this position: You must have: (A) At least three years of progressively higher graduate-level education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited college and/or university, OR (B) One year of specialized experience, OR (C) A combination of successfully completed progressive graduate-level education that is beyond the second year of graduate study and professional engineering experience.
 I have at least three years of progressively higher graduate-level education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in an engineering curriculum from an accredited college and/or university in the fields of study as described in the Basic Qualification Requirements of this job announcement. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study (If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours is considered an academic year of graduate study).
 I have at least one year of specialized experience interpreting and applying advanced engineering and/or scientific principles, theories, concepts, and methodologies used in the evaluation of technology; or planning and conducting technical research to draft technical papers; or applying appropriate references and case law to claimed inventions.
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education, that is beyond the second year of progressive graduate study, and professional engineering experience.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.
