Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-13045757-26-JTN Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
To qualify for this position, applicants must meet one of the following Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR).

Degree: Accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")

-OR-

Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.

 I possess the Degree requirements as listed above and have included a copy of my transcripts with my application.
 I possess a Combination of education and experience as listed above and have included a copy of my transcripts and/or certification and my resume details my experience.
 I do not possess the required education or experience requirements for this position.


2.
To qualify for this position at the GS-9 level, you must meet one of the following:

GS-9 Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-7 in Federal Service that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: Comprehensive accounting knowledge of theories, practices, methods, and techniques; Ability to independently plan and conduct a variety of accounting assignments; Analyzing accounting systems; Modifying and adapting accounting and analytical techniques to solve a variety of accounting issues and/or problems.

-OR-

GS-9 Education: Applicants may substitute education for the experience. You must have two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree; OR master's degree; OR equivalent graduate degree which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)

-OR-

GS-9 Combination: You must have equivalent combinations of specialized experience and education beyond one year of graduate level education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)

 I possess the GS-9 Specialized Experience requirements and have documented my experience on my resume.
 I possess the GS-9 Education requirements and have included transcript copies with my application.
 I possess the GS-9 Combination of Education and Specialized Experience and my resume details my experience and I have included transcript copies with my application package.
 I do not possess the GS-9 experience or education requirements.


3.
To qualify for this position at the GS-11 level, you must meet one of the following:

GS-11 Specialized Experience: Applicants must possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-9 in Federal Service that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience includes, but is not limited to: Comprehensive accounting knowledge of theories, practices, methods, and techniques; Independently plan and conduct a variety of accounting assignments; Thorough working knowledge analyzing accounting systems; Modifying and adapting accounting and analytical techniques to solve a variety of complex accounting issues and/or problems; Analyzing trends in accounting systems and their significance to ongoing programs and commercial operations; Resolving problems within the accounting system or program operation, and determining the need for program redesign or modification.

-OR-

GS-11 Education: Applicants may substitute education for the experience. You must have three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree; OR Ph.D.; OR equivalent doctoral degree. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)

-OR-

GS-11 Combination: You must have equivalent combinations of specialized experience and education beyond one and a half years of graduate-level education. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Transcripts Required)

 I possess the GS-11 Specialized Experience requirements and have documented my experience on my resume.
 I possess the GS-11 Education requirements and have included transcript copies with my application.
 I possess the GS-11 Combination of Education and Specialized Experience and my resume details my experience and I have included transcript copies with my application package.
 I do not possess the GS-11 experience or education requirements


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙