Position Title
Supervisory Security Specialist
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12890033-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen Out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess for the position of Supervisory Security Specialist. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower broadband (NH- 03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) with: Experience directing, managing, and guiding program activities required to lead the efficient management operations of a large security and/or intelligence organization; Experience with security principles, methods, and techniques related to development, acquisition, and deployment of complex weapon systems such as SCI and/or SAP security, Information Security, Classification and Declassification Management, and/or Operations Security; Experience with the roles, missions and functions of the US Intelligence and counterintelligence communities; Experience coordinating multi-disciplined requirements and processes among multiple stakeholders at varying levels of command and influence across OSD elements, military services, federal agencies, industrial partners, and foreign government representatives.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙