Position Title
SUPV PROD CONTROLLER (AIRCRAFT)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12940757-201779-NE-SL-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 28, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-13 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.



1.
GS-13:  Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-13 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-13 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-12 level in the federal service. Examples of qualifying experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: ability and knowledge of aircraft or aircraft support related planning, coordinating, and executing of business functions, resource allocation, and production; AND ability and knowledge of civilian and military personnel systems and regulations sufficient to meet key requirements of Human Capital and staffing; AND mastery of concepts, principles, and practices of management with emphasis on the integration of separate functional organizations requiring making, or participating in making decisions as to the impact of changing priorities, attention to work progress and adjustments in plans and schedules; and ability to act quickly and withstand considerable and continuing pressure; AND ability to develop and maintain up-to-date information on the measure of performance and decides or recommends what action is required to maintain operational/production schedules; AND abilities and skills such as: getting individuals to work closely together effectively and efficiently; developing, maintaining, motivating, and coaching individuals and teams, building consensus within groups.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙