Position Title
Assistant Inspector General for Legal Affairs
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-ES-0905-26-12913078 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current career Senior Executive Service (SES) member in the Federal Government, a graduate of an OPM approved SES Candidate Development Program (CDP), or an individual with SES reinstatement eligibility who meets the mandatory qualifications requirement?
Note:  If your response to this question is "yes", you must submit official documentation from your agency (i.e. SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action or OPM SES QRB Approval Certification).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a permanent, career or career conditional employee?                                                       
Note:  If your response to this question is "yes", you must submit official documentation from your agency (i.e. SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action)
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are a Federal civilian employee, in what type of position are you currently serving?
 Senior Executive Service
 Competitive Service
 Excepted Service
 Not a Federal civilian employee


4.
Do you possess a professional law degree (e.g. J.D.) acquired through graduation from a School of Law accredited by the American Bar Association and are you an active member in good standing of the Bar in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or territory of the United States?
 Yes
 No


5.
I am a veteran who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); OR I am a preference eligible; AND my discharge was performed under honorable conditions.
 Yes
 No


6.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

• A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
• A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
• A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Assistant Inspector General for Legal Affairs position located in the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, Office of Counsel to the Inspector General.  Please answer the below questions.


1.
This is an attorney position. From the description below, select the one response which best describes how you meet the mandatory education and/or certification requirement.  Note:  You are required to submit documentation supporting your response to be considered for this position.
 I have a J.D. or LL.B degree from a full course of study in a School of Law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA). I am a member in good standing of the bar of a state, territory of the U.S., or District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I do not possess the education/criteria described above.


2.
The area of consideration for this position is current federal employees within the civil service.  The "civil service" is defined as all persons who 
occupy positions in the executive (includes excepted service), judicial, and legislative branches, except positions in the uniformed services (the armed forces, the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, and the Commissioned Corps of NOAA).  Included are experts and consultants who occupy appointive positions, and individuals in the Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission.  The District of Columbia Government is not part of the Federal civil service.  Do you meet the area of consideration requirements under this definition?
Note:  SES reinstatement eligibles outside the civil service and SES CDP graduates with noncompetitive eligibility may apply for noncompetitive 
consideration.
 Yes, I meet the area of consideration requirements define above.
 No, I am not a current federal civil service employee, and I am not eligible for SES reinstatement.


3.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience which qualifies you for a Senior Executive Position?
 I have the Technical Qualifications and Executive Core Qualifications outlined in the Qualifications Requirements Section of this vacancy announcement and it is evident in my resume.
 I do not have the Technical Qualifications and Executive Core Qualifications outlined in the Qualifications Requirements Section of this vacancy announcement.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Your supporting documentation and later steps in the selection 
process are specifically designed to verify your responses.

Note:  Completion of this Assessment Questionnaire alone does not constitute a complete application.  Additional supporting documentation is required.  If you fail to submit all required documents by the closing date of this announcement, the system will flag your application as incomplete, and you will be ineligible for further consideration.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in 
good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R part 731).  I understand that any information I give may be investigated.  I understand that failure to submit all required documents by the closing date of this announcement will result in my not being considered for this position.  I understand that responding "no" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in my application package is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙