Position Title
Child and Youth Program Teen Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13042428 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Teen Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A Child Development Associate (CDA) credential, Military School-Age (MSA) credential or equivalent AND 3 years of experience where the incumbent displays knowledge of a competency in developmentally appropriate programming.
 2-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development or related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development or other degrees as appropriate AND 2 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 4 year degree in any of the above fields of study AND a minimum of 1 year of experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, or other related field of study that can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (human development emphasis), or other related degree as appropriate.
 I have a 2-year degree in ECE, Child Development, or related field of study that can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (emphasis in Human Development), or other related degree as appropriate.
 I have a Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities (e.g., teen clubs, trips and excursions, specialty camps, overnight lock-ins) that support teens' social and emotional growth and help them build character, leadership skills, and self-esteem?
 I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in record management, inventory control, or purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth development program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, such as visiting local housing areas to interact with teens and families, supporting the development of youth sponsorship programs, and assisting youth in acclimating to their new communities?
 I have 3+ years of experience in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 3 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 3 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


7.
What size is the Youth Sports Program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large Youth Sports Program (200 youth and above).
 I have experience managing a medium Youth Sports Program (100 to 199 youth).
 I have experience managing a small Youth Sports Program (up to 99 youth).
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙