Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (SYSANALYSIS/APPSW)
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-26-12838423-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 20, 2025 to Thursday, December 4, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Question
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your level of experience. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (NH-I or GS-05 equivalent) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: assist with oversight of engineering design, test, and cybersecurity evaluations of IT systems and system modification; assist with research for new and emerging IT products and technologies for compliance with approval IT systems policies, standards, and technical architectures.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (NH-II or GS-11 equivalent) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Qualifying specialized experience would include: lead application modernization technical and engineering efforts for IT systems to a microservices container-based cloud architecture within a CI/CD pipeline; lead Agile software development for one or more applications as a developer, Product Owner, or Scrum Master. Ability to develop and analyze agile metrics to monitor maturity of agile software development for a team or organization; perform risk assessments against an IT system to include static and dynamic code analysis using tools such as fortify and SonarQube.
 I have completed a 4 year course of study leading to a Bachelor's degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience that meets the minimum requirement for the position.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the statements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙