Position Title
Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12985757-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience or education.
 NH-02: I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-01/GS-04) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). I meet 3 of the 5 statements in order to be qualified. Creditable specialized experience includes: Problem Solving: Identify, analyze, and solve complex problems using structured problem-solving techniques. Apply logical and critical thinking to develop solutions to analytical problems. Mathematical Applications: Apply mathematical methods and techniques, such as linear algebra, calculus, probability, and statistics, to solve real-world problems. Familiarity with optimization, simulation, and other operations research methodologies. Data Analysis and Management: Conduct quantitative and qualitative data analysis to extract meaningful insights, including data collection, cleaning, validation, and interpretation. Possess basic understanding of data management principles, including data storage, retrieval, and database management. Software Tools: Use cost estimating, data analysis or statistical tools and software (e.g. Excel, SAS, R, ACE-IT, etc.) Communication Skills: Use verbal and written communication skills to effectively convey analysis results and insights to customers and stakeholders. Deliver clear and concise reports, presentations, and documentation of analytical findings. Experience must be reflected in your resume. Education may be substituted for experience at the NH-02 level.
 NH-02 Education: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study or specific course requirements generally as stated in paragraph A in the individual occupational requirements.
 NH-02 Combination: I have a combination of experience and education listed in A. and B.
 NH-03: I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-02/GS-11) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). I meet 3 of the 5 statements in order to be qualified. Cost Estimating:  Create credible, accurate, comprehensive, and documented Life Cycle Cost Estimates (LCCEs), Program Office Estimates (POEs), and/or Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCEs) ; Data Analysis and Management: Conduct quantitative and qualitative data analysis to extract meaningful insights, including data collection, cleaning, validation, and interpretation. Basic understanding of data management principles, including data storage, retrieval, and database management; Analysis and Methodologies: Develop application of appropriate cost estimating and analysis methodologies, utilizing techniques such as linear and non-linear regression to determine cost estimating relationships (CERs); Develop and maintain cost models capable of providing timely, reliable cost estimates; Communication:  Prepare document and brief cost estimates, cost analysis, cost studies, excursions and recommendations to customers and stakeholders; Creditable specialized experience includes: Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 I do not possess the required experience and/or education as listed above to qualify for this position.


2.
In addition to meeting the specialized experience and/or education, select the letter that BEST describe the highest level of education and/or experience to meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the position Operations Research Analyst. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I have a Degree in operations research.
 I have at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 I do not meet either of the basic education requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙