Position Title
Operator Licensing Assistant
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13052226-26-MT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
9
10


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


Assessment 1
1.
GG-08:  Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-07 (or higher) grade level or equivalent, to include experience that has provided the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform a wide range of administrative duties such as: skill in operating computer equipment sufficient to prepare correspondence and reports in final form; ability to organize the flow of administrative; ability to maintain and organize an adequate filing system; and to handle multiple, time sensitive tasks.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


2.
GG-09:  Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-08 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include experience in initiating, coordinating, monitoring, reviewing and/or processing into final licensing actions, or other related documents and communications ensuring compliance with non-technical administrative aspects of NRC rules, regulations and procedures applicable to the licensing process.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


3.
GG-10:  Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-09 (or higher) grade level or equivalent, to include experience initiating, coordinating, monitoring, reviewing, and/or processing into final licensing actions, technical specifications, or other related documents and communications ensuring compliance with non-technical admistrative aspects of NRC rules, regulations and procedures applicable to licensing actions.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙