Position Title
Public Affairs Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
OMAO-26-13049903-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Lakeland, FL
 B. Newport, OR
 C. Newport, RI
 D. Charleston, SC


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
ZA-3: Select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Public Affairs Specialist, ZA-1035-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Supporting communications and public relations to increase awareness of programs, policies or activities; and Participating in editing and evaluating outreach and communication materials such as web stories, scripts, news releases, facts sheet or speeches.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


2.
ZA-4: Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Public Affairs Specialist, ZA-1035-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in planning and developing policies or strategies to support communications efforts and media relations; Disseminating information through public relations and media platforms such as social media channels, websites, news releases or outreach events; and Developing and recommending improvements to increase effectiveness of communications and the dissemination of information.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Why is telling an organization's story important?

 It increases awareness of and support for the expertise and mission critical work that takes place.
 It reduces reporting requirements.
 It gives us a way to use the cool photos that we capture.
 It increases our budget.


2.
Which principle is ESSENTIAL when representing an organization as a spokesperson?

 Advocacy for personal opinions
 Transparency, accuracy, and adherence to organization’s policy
 Limiting communication to written formats
 Avoiding difficult questions


3.
During a crisis affecting an organization or operations, what is the PRIORITY communication objective?

 Protecting the agency’s reputation at all costs
 Providing timely, accurate, and transparent information to the public
 Limiting all communications
 Waiting until all facts are known before speaking


4.
Which of the following is the MOST important first step when developing a long-term strategic communications plan for a program?

 Drafting press releases
 Identifying target audiences and communication objectives
 Scheduling media interviews
 Designing social media graphics


5.
This position is in a fast-paced work environment, with competing and changing priorities. What is the best approach to prioritizing multiple tasks?

 First come, first served.
 Leadership needs take precedence.
 It depends. Some situations require immediate attention for a variety of reasons.
 Ask my supervisor to decide.


6.
When coordinating communications across multiple organizations, what is MOST important?

 Independent messaging by each organization
 Consistent and aligned messaging across organizations
 Delaying communication until all organizations agree fully
 Limiting communication to internal staff


7.
Which of the following is MOST important in communicating operations and science missions?

 Scheduling media interviews.
 Getting to fly in a hurricane, sail on a ship or go diving.
 Ensuring media have the content needed to accurately tell our story.
 Being a subject matter expert.


8.
Which skill is MOST critical when translating complex scientific information for public audiences?

 Using technical jargon to ensure accuracy
 Simplifying content while maintaining accuracy
 Increasing document length
 Using only data tables


9.
Creating content for various audiences and platforms is crucial in telling our story. Which of the following is the MOST necessary?

 Ensuring consistent messaging across all mediums.
 Always including a visual.
 Providing a detailed explanation.
 Posting on social media.


10.
Various staff and leadership look to the public affairs specialists for guidance and best practices in communications. Which action is NOT something to ensure a subject matter expert's success?

 Provide communications training.
 Work with subject matter experts to identify key messages
 Turn down interview requests.
 Develop content using clear, jargon-free language.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙