Position Title
Medical Record Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13000139-26-TMF Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


Citizenship. Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Handbook chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, Part II.)


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen.
 No, I am NOT a U.S. Citizen.


English Language Proficiency. MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).


2.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


All MRT (Coders) are required to have at least one of the following Experience and/or Education:
(1) Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records; OR,
(2) Education. An associate degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR
(3) Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed; OR
(4) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:
(a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses.
(b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to an MRT (Coder).


3.
Do you acquire at least one of the above basic listed required experiences and/or education as listed above?

 Yes, I have the required experience and/or education as listed above.
 No, however, I am a permanent employee of the VA as an MRT(Coder), GS-0675, before 12/10/2019, and I am covered by the grandfathering provision.
 No, I do NOT have the required experience and/or education as listed above.


Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:
(1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
(3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

NOTE: Mastery level certification is required for all positions above the journey level, GS-08; however, for clinical documentation improvement specialist assignments, a clinical documentation improvement certification may be substituted for a mastery level certification.

Loss of Credential. Following initial certification, credentials must be maintained through rigorous continuing education, ensuring the highest level of competency for employers and consumers. An employee in this occupation who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment. At the discretion of the appointing official, an employee may be reassigned to another occupation for which he/she qualifies, if a placement opportunity exists.


4.
Do you have one of the above listed certifications?

 Yes, I have the required certification, and I understand the requirement to maintain the required certification to remain in the occupation. Failure to maintain the required certification may result in termination of Federal employment.
 No, however, I am a permanent employee of the VA as an MRT(Coder), GS-0675, before 12/10/2019, and I am covered by the grandfathering provision.
 No, I do not have the required certification.


The following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient),. Education and experience will be verified.


Medical Records Technician Coder-(Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-04. Assignment. Employees at this level serve as entry level MRTs (Coder) and receive close supervision from more experienced MRTs (Coder). They select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with close guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.


Experience or Education for the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient): None beyond the basic requirements.


5.
For the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). Do you have at least the basic requirements listed above?

 Yes, I have at least the basic education and/or experience for the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient).
 No, I do NOT have the basic education and or experience for the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient).


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-05. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 1 MRTs (Coder) and receive guidance from more experienced MRTs (Coder) for more complex coding procedures. Selects and assigns codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit
(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level; OR
(b) Education. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or technology.
(c) In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA):
i. Ability to use health information technology and various office software products used in MRT (Coder) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, etc.).
ii. Ability to navigate through and abstract pertinent information from health records.
iii. Knowledge of the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT guidelines.
iv. Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology, human anatomy/physiology, and disease processes to accurately assign codes to inpatient and outpatient episodes of care based on health record documentation.
v. Knowledge of The Joint Commission requirements, CMS, and/or health record documentation guidelines.
vi. Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.


6.
For the GS-05 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience and can demonstrate the KSA or the education listed above?
 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs and/or the education for the GS-05 MRT(Coder-Inpatient).
 No, I do not have the experience or education for the GS-05 MRT(Coder-Inpatient)


Medical Records Technician (Coder-outpatient and Inpatient), GS-06. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve in developmental level 2 positions as MRTs (Coder) and receive intermittent monitoring. MRTs (Coder) perform a combination of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. They select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with limited guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.
(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and
(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
i. Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation.
ii. Ability to determine whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support the assigned codes. This includes the ability to take appropriate actions if health record contents are not complete, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
iii. Ability to apply laws and regulations on the confidentiality of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and HIPAA).
iv. Ability to accurately apply the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT Guidelines to various coding scenarios.
v. Comprehensive knowledge of current classification systems, such as ICD CM, PCS, CPT, HCPCS, and skill in applying classifications to both inpatient and outpatient records based on health record documentation.
vi. Knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC) and POA indicators to obtain correct MS-DRG.


7.
For the GS-06 MRT(Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above?
 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-06 (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient).
 No, I do not have the experience for the GS-06 MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient).


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-7. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 3 MRTs (Coder) and receive minimal monitoring. MRTs (Coder) perform a combination of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. Selects and assigns codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data with minimal guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports the diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They also query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit
(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and
(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
i. Skill in applying current coding classifications to a variety of inpatient specialty care areas to accurately reflect service and care provided based on documentation in the health record.
ii. Ability to communicate with clinical staff for specific coding and documentation issues, such as recording diagnoses and procedures, the correct sequencing of diagnoses and/or procedures, and the relationship between health record documentation and code assignment.
iii. Ability to research and solve coding and documentation related issues.
iv. Skill in reviewing and correcting system or processing errors and ensuring all assigned work is complete.
v. Ability to abstract, assign, and sequence codes, including complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indicators, to obtain correct MS-DRG.


8.
For the GS-07 MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above?
 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-07 MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient).
 No, I do not have the experience for the GS-07 MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient).


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-08. Assignment. This is the journey level for this assignment. MRTs (Coder) at this level perform the full scope of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. Inpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to assign ICD CM and PCS codes for diagnosis, complications/major complications, comorbid/major comorbid conditions, surgery, and procedures for accurate assignment of DRGs. Outpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to accurately assign ICD CM codes for diagnosis and complications, and CPT/HCPCS codes for surgeries, procedures, evaluation and management services, and inpatient professional services. They independently review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They code all complicated and complex medical/specialty diseases processes, patient injuries, and all medical procedures in a wide range of ambulatory/inpatient settings and specialties. They directly consult with the clinical staff for clarification of conflicting, incomplete, or ambiguous clinical data in the health record. They abstract, assign, and sequence codes into encoder software to obtain correct DRG, support medical necessity, resolve encoder edits, and ensure codes accurately reflect services rendered. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports diagnostic and procedural codes assigned, and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They enter and correct information that has been rejected, when necessary. They correct any identified data errors or inconsistencies. They also ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.
(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and
(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
i. Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the health record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient.
ii. Ability to accurately perform the full scope of outpatient coding, including ambulatory surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and outpatient encounters, and inpatient facility coding, including inpatient discharges, surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and inpatient professional services.
iii. Skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work, or have gaps in specificity, and the ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines.


9.
For the GS-08 MRT(Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above
 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-08 MRT(Coder-Inpatient).
 No, I do not have the experience for the GS-08 MRT(Coder-Inpatient)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙