Position Title
Electronics Technician
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-MBA-26-DE-13005614-BLO Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Rural Water Division, Bismarck, ND
 B. Rural Water Division, Pierre, SD


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
10
11


3.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Please note that you will only be considered for the eligibility option(s) for which you select. You may select more than one option of consideration, if applicable. If the required documentation is not received by the closing date of the announcement, you will be found ineligible for the position and will be removed from further review. A resume is required for ALL consideration options.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I certify that I have read each of the referral eligibilities identified in this announcement and I have selected the eligibility or eligibilities that I wish to be considered. I understand that failure to identify an eligibility or eligibilities will result in loss of consideration for this announcement. I understand that I must submit all required documentation to verify my eligibility by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency (Selective Placement Factor)

This position requires the ability to read, write, and speak the English language fluently. Do you certify that you possess full proficiency in reading, writing, and speaking English?

 Yes – I certify that I am fluent in reading, writing, and speaking the English language.
 No – I do not meet this requirement.


INSTRUCTIONS:
Read all response options carefully before making your selection. If you choose more than one response or leave a question blank, you will be rated as ineligible.
Your application materials must support the answers you claim. If your documentation does not support your claims, you may be found not qualified or receive a lower score. No assumptions will be made about your experience. Read the Qualifications section for requirements.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. Read the Required Documents and the How You Will Be Evaluated sections for requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Individual Occupational Requirements - Do you meet the required Individual Occupational Requirements listed below?
This series covers technical positions supervising, leading, or performing work involving applying:
knowledge of the techniques and theories characteristic of electronics, such as a knowledge of basic electricity and electronic theory, algebra, and elementary physics;
knowledge of electronic equipment design, development, evaluation, testing, installation, and maintenance; and
knowledge of the capabilities, limitations, operations, design, characteristics, and functional use of a variety of types and models of electronic equipment and systems related to, but less than, a full professional knowledge of electronic engineering.
Electronics technicians may have gained experience assisting in work situations including:
Maintenance - Developing maintenance standards and procedures for use by others. Analyzing repair practices and developing procedural instructions for use by others on methods and steps to repair equipment.
Installation - Planning and directing the installation of complex systems and associated facilities, particularly where there are site selection and construction problems, dealings with contractors and public utilities, and the possible need to modify equipment for novel site characteristics.
Fabrication - Designing and analyzing circuits, determining design feasibility, evaluating equipment performance under varying environmental conditions, and collecting performance data. Designing or modifying designs to achieve performance and cost objectives. Evaluating the adequacy of equipment for such purposes as repair, calibration, and testing.
Testing and Evaluation/Research and Development - Developing or evaluating new or modified electronic systems. Completing testing, evaluating data, and determining acceptability of equipment modifications, validity, test procedures and data, or legality of operation. Technicians support professional engineers in performing experiments, research, and developmental activities requiring an in-depth knowledge of technical engineering methods, applications, practices, and principles to work on concepts, prototypes, and experimental projects that are without precedent and support state-of-the-art research.
Sustainment - Developing, performing, evaluating, or modifying calibration and test equipment, systems, and procedures. Reporting, analyzing, and archiving test data. Performing complex calculations and manipulations of test data to improve performance of systems, instrumentation, measurement standards, techniques, and procedures.
Troubleshooting - Analyzing and diagnosing faults in the operational configuration of electronic systems and equipment. Interpreting circuit wiring, logic cable diagrams, drawings, specifications, and schematics of complete systems and equipment to understand the function and interconnections of the various assemblies and troubleshoot the system.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level that demonstrates the ability to apply comprehensive, practical knowledge of electronic theory, digital and analog circuitry, and electronic troubleshooting methods to maintain, install, and repair Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and electronic control systems used in water treatment and rural water projects?

Specialized experience may include:
- Performing preventive and corrective maintenance on SCADA systems, PLCs, motor controllers, instrumentation, radios, and communication equipment.
- Troubleshooting faulty signals, failed components, and communication issues using diagnostic tools.
- Reading and interpreting wiring diagrams and system drawings to isolate electronic.
- Replacing electronic components and sub-assemblies and verifying operability through functional testing.
- Identifying appropriate substitute parts when originals are obsolete.
- Requesting replacement components and documenting maintenance actions.
 Yes
 No


5.
*3. Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 level that demonstrates the advanced skill applying in depth knowledge of complex SCADA architectures, electronic control theory, and the interactions among integrated analog/digital sub assemblies to maintain overall system integrity across multiple water treatment and distribution facilities?

Specialized experience may include:
- Troubleshooting and resolving system-wide failures involving multiple SCADA units, communication networks, signal interfaces, or processor components.
- Evaluating system performance trends, interpreting time/frequency relationships, assessing impacts of sub-assembly failures, and determining root causes of recurring malfunctions.
- Developing or modifying maintenance procedures, diagnostic methods, or testing approaches to improve system efficiency and reliability.
- Researching and selecting suitable substitute components for obsolete parts, verifying compatibility, and ensuring continuity of operations.
- Coordinating with engineering staff to assess control logic, system design interactions, and effects of equipment upgrades on system performance.
- Maintaining system integrity across multiple facilities by understanding interactions between stand-alone units and integrated circuits, processors, and communications hardware.
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙