Position Title
Food Service Worker
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-27-13083258-DHA
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
FULL OQ JT 329349 12952677 MP
.
Thank you for your interest in a Food Service Worker, WG-7408-04, position with the Department of War, Defense Health Agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Food Service Worker duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex patient food service duties in a hospital or medical treatment facility. I am skilled in completing the full cycle of centralized patient tray service functions on a shift and rotation basis. I can independently prepare individual and bulk nourishments, special feedings, toast, coffee, and other items for patients, using scales and measuring devices to assemble, measure, weigh, and mix ingredients with precision. I can convert between metric and U.S. measuring units, arrange and assemble regular and modified diet items according to individually written menus, and prepare, label, and deliver nourishments and early or late meals to nursing stations. I can wrap and assemble individual servings such as bread, desserts, silverware, and salads, and transport fully assembled patient trays to wards. I am skilled in returning carts, disassembling trays, operating manual and mechanical dishwashing equipment, and performing complete sanitation of carts, tables, conveyors, refrigerators, floors, and the total work area. I am considered an expert and perform these duties with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of patient food service functions. I can prepare individual and bulk nourishments, special feedings, and other simple items and measure ingredients using scales and portion control devices. I can label and deliver nourishments and meals to nursing stations and assemble regular or modified diet trays following written menus. I can wrap and assemble individual food items and place completed trays on carts for transport. I can collect carts after meals, disassemble trays, and wash dishware using manual methods or mechanical dishwashers. I can clean carts, equipment, and work areas and maintain sanitation standards. I work on my own initiative under general supervision and am subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Food Service Worker duties. I can follow instructions to prepare simple nourishments and food items and measure ingredients using basic measuring tools. I can assemble and deliver food trays and wrap individual servings. I can deliver and pick up patient trays, collect carts, and wash and sanitize dishware using a dishwasher. I can perform routine cleaning of carts, tables, floors, and work areas. I work under normal supervision from a work leader or journey-level worker who observes tasks in progress and upon completion
 I have the ability to perform simple food service activities and I have received training on food service operations.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
