Position Title
Supervisory Social Science Program Specialist (Workflow Coordinator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12907163-26-HB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Social Science Program Specialist position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that experience and education are subject to verification. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers.

Required Time in Grade: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. You must provide the correct SF50 verifying time in grade, please see qualifications section.
For this vacancy, applicants must have held the following for at least a year:
For a GS-12 position you must have held a GS-11 or higher.

Note: Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old




Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Selective Placement Factor:

This position includes a Selective Placement Factor (SPF) (skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to, and essential for, satisfactory performance of the job). Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet the SPF are ineligible for further consideration.

The Selective Placement Factor for this position is: Advanced mastery of crisis risk assessment skills to ensure the provision of emergency crisis interventions to a complex and high-risk population.

Do you have significant experience doing crisis risk assessments?
 Yes
 No


2.
Individual Occupational Requirement:
In order to meet the basic requirement of the Supervisory Social Science Program Specialist, 0101 series, you must possess one of the following:

1. Degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
or
2. Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
or
3. Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

Please indicate which of these requirements you possess. 


 I have a degree with a major in behavioral or social science.
 I have a combination of some work experience and some education in behavioral or social science field.
 I have 4 years of experience that allowed me to acquire knowledge of a behavioral or social science that is equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


3.
Specialized Experience:
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. You must meet 5/7 of the following examples of specialized experience. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Planned and assigned work, approved training requests, set priorities and deadlines, evaluated progress and outcomes, developed performance standards and evaluated work performance of employees.
Provided advice and instructions on technical and administrative issues, made or approved selections and other personnel actions, heard and resolved formal and informal complaints and grievances.
Assessed the daily schedule of staff and identified any potential gaps or overstaffing. 
Ensured regulatory compliance and service level agreements are met and/or exceeded.
Handled unique staff/case issues that my arise in a crisis call center environment and initiated and carried out contingency and emergency procedures as needed. 
Provided crisis risk assessment skills to ensure the provision of emergency crisis interventions to a complex and high-risk population. 
Collaborated with internal and external partners to carry out evaluations of program operations to identify areas for improvement, development and implementing and evaluating efficacy of improvement efforts. 
Please select the option below that applies to you.
 I have at least one year of the experience at the GS-11 grade described in the above statements.
 I do not have at least one year of the experience at the GS-11 grade described in the above statements.


You must be a current, permanent employee of the Veterans Crisis Line or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible to apply to this announcement. CTAP eligibles are current surplus or displaced employees from the Department of Veterans Affairs.  Ensure you review the 'Eligibilities' section, select the appropriate response, and submit the required documentation. Failure to do so will result in you being rated as ineligible, and providing false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙