Position Title
Health and Wellness Coach
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12901624-26-AVM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless you are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education and/or Experience
Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in behavioral or social science or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
OR Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
OR Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

Do you meet the education and/or experience for this vacancy?
 Yes, I have successfully completed a full 4-year course in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in behavioral or social science or a related discipline to this position. I understand that I must also attach my transcripts.
 Yes, I have a combination of education and experience in which I obtained knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. I understand that I must also attach my transcripts and my experience must be clearly demonstrated on my resume.
 Yes, I have four years of experience in which I obtained knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. I understand that this experience must be clearly demonstrated on my resume.
 No, I do not meet any of the above requirements


3.
Certification
Candidates must be currently certified by the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC). 

Exception: Applicants who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required board certification, may be appointed, pending certification, as a Health and Wellness Coach on a temporary appointment up to one year.

Grandfathering Provision: Current permanent employees in VHA as a Health and Wellness Coach are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade/and or assignment held.

Are you certified by the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC)?
 Yes, I am certified by the NBHWC and a copy of the certification has been submitted with my application.
 I am a current permanent Health and Wellness Coach employee in VHA and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 I do not meet this requirement and I understand I cannot be placed permanently into this position until this requirement is met.
 No, I am not certified and do not expect to become certified.


GRADE LEVEL REQUIREMENTS
Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. No assumptions will be made.


4.
Health and Wellness, GS-07
Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you posses all basic qualifications requirements for this position?
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current permanent VHA employee i this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge , Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
(a) Knowledge of health and wellness coaching processes and techniques.
(b) Ability to promote positive lifestyle choices.
(c) Ability to effectively communicate in writing through a variety of modalities.
(d) Ability to effectively communicate verbally/non-verbally.

Do you meet the above GS-07 KSAs?
 Yes
 No


6.
Health and Wellness Coach, GS-09
Experience: One year creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade, (GS-07). Examples of GS-07 grade level experience includes but is not limited to:
Provides health coaching to individuals or groups in outpatient and inpatient settings using multiple formats (face-to-face, telephone, virtual, etc.) to increase/promote a positive lifestyle, habits, and behaviors.
Provides support in fostering internal strengths and external resources to develop self-directed strategies for personalized, sustainable, healthy lifestyle behavior changes and more effectively manage chronic disease.
Collaborates with interdisciplinary clinical and non-clinical staff and teams to facilitate and empower Veterans to develop and achieve self-determining goals related to health and well-being that align with what matters most and their mission, aspiration, or purpose (MAP.
Utilizes motivational interviewing, coaching theories, and coaching techniques to assist clients in accomplishing their action steps and goals.
Provides education around health and wellness coaching services, evidence, and research.
Do you possess one year of creditable experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent as described above?
 Yes
 No


7.
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge , Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
(a) Knowledge of current research literature related to health and wellness, including behaviors that promote a healthy lifestyle and well-being.
(b) Skill in using health and wellness coaching techniques to promote positive behavior change in one-on-one, couple or group modalities.
(c) Skill in exercising effective interpersonal communication techniques to develop and maintain strong interpersonal relationships.
(d) Ability to assist the client in developing a comprehensive personalized health plan based on a patient's action-oriented goals.
(e) Ability to identify resources internal and eternal to the organization that are necessary for achieving patient overall health and well-being goals.
(f) Ability to use information technology (IT) equipment and various/emerging technologies to carry out work responsibilities.
(g) Ability to document patient information using appropriate systems.

Do you meet the above GS-09 KSAs?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙