Position Title
FOOD SERVICE WORKER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12917420 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position requires a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education. You must provide documentation in order to be considered. Do you have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in cooking and food preparation.
 Able to modify and create complex recipes and prepare food in varying equipment and quantities.
 Able to follow complex recipes requiring multiple methods, ingredients, and steps.
 Able to follow basic recipes and processes to prepare food.
 Able to identify, measure, and prepare food items and ingredients.
 Limited or none.


3.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in ensuring food sanitation and safety in a shared cooking environment.
 Able to instruct other staff members on compliance with food sanitation and safety requirements (e.g., establishing proper routines, teaching temperature and timeline restrictions, explaining contamination dangers, etc.).
 Able to identify proper and improper handling of food ingredients and equipment (e.g., monitoring expiration dates, verifying cleaning checklists, etc.) to determine where training may be needed.
 Able to sanitize food-related equipment and surfaces such as utensils or countertops and assist others with such tasks.
 Able to meet basic hygiene standards.
 Limited or none.


4.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in inventory management.
 Able to manage, prioritize, purchase, and plan based on inventory quantities, usage statistics, and future needs.
 Able to identify shortages, overages, and time-sensitive items from among a large variety of inventory and adjust current plans accordingly.
 Able to track increases and decreases in quantities over time (e.g., month to month).
 Able to count and measure quantities.
 Limited or none.


5.
Select the response that best describes your experience in cooking and food preparation in large quantities.
 12 or more months working in quantity cooking and food preparation for large groups of around 50 or more diners (e.g., students in a school cafeteria, medium or large catered events, etc.).
 1 to 11 months working in quantity cooking and food preparation for large groups of around 50 or more diners (e.g., students in a school cafeteria, medium and large catered events, etc.).
 Experience working in quantity cooking and food preparation for small groups of diners (e.g., patrons in a small cafeteria, restaurant event groups, small catered events, etc.).
 Experience working in cooking and food preparation.
 Limited or none.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙