Position Title
HHS Innovation and Transformation Fellowship
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-ONC-PN-26-13002585 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a former Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employee eligible for priority reemployment consideration under the HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) due to Reduction in Force (RIF)?

You may be eligible for priority consideration if you are actively registered on the HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) for the same local commuting area, occupational job series, and grade level(s) as this vacancy announcement.

If you meet these criteria, the following supporting documentation must be submitted to support your claim:
copy of your last performance rating of record (if separated due to RIF);
SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that shows the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were separated. If you did not reach your full performance level or promotion potential, you should also submit an additional SF-50 that documents that grade level. To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information; and,
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease (if eligible due to recovery from compensable work-related injury).
Based on the above, are you eligible for PRL? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14
15


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0301 - Miscellaneous Administration And Program
 B. 0340 - Program Management
 C. 0343 - Management And Program Analysis
 D. 0601 - General Health Science
 E. 0685 - Public Health Program Specialist
 F. 2210 - Information Technology Management


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙