Position Title
CBP Agriculture Specialist
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP-PC-ROB-12839888-MEK Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 8, 2025 to Friday, December 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
All applicants who are NOT CURRENTLY in the 0401 series must have been in the series within the last five years to be eligible for this announcement. Do you meet one of the statements below?
I am currently in the 0401 series
I am NOT currently in the 0401 series, however, i have been in the 0401 series within the last five (5) years.
To verify eligibility, CBP employees are strongly encouraged to provide a copy of the most recent SF-50(s) to support the above eligibility.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Oranjestad, Aruba
 B. Nassau, Bahamas
 C. Hamilton, Bermuda
 D. Calgary, Canada
 E. Edmonton, Canada
 F. Halifax, Canada
 G. Montreal, Canada
 H. Ottawa, Canada
 I. Toronto, Canada
 J. Vancouver, Canada
 K. Victoria, Canada
 L. Winnipeg, Canada
 M. Dublin, Ireland
 N. Shannon Airport, Ireland
 O. Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates


2.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


4.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


5.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


6.
Have you served or are you currently serving as a permanent GS-12 or higher with Customs and Border Protection?
 Yes
 No


7.
Per the NTEU agreement, any employee who has been reassigned, promoted, temporarily promoted, or received a change to lower grade to an overseas position with Customs and Border Protection cannot be considered for another overseas position within 2 years from the end date of the employee's previous overseas tour. This does not include Temporary Duty Assignments (TDY) to overseas locations. "Overseas" is defined as any location outside of the United States and its territories or commonwealths (i.e. Saipan, Guam, Puerto Rico, Hawaii, Virgin Islands, Alaska, etc).

Have you been reassigned, promoted, temporarily promoted, or received a change to lower grade to an overseas position with Customs and Border Protection within the last 2 years?
 Yes
 No


8.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


9.
Applicants must be admissible to the country they are selected for before a final offer is issued. Employees must select the locations of interest and review the admissibility requirements of those countries. Applicants must certify that they, and if accompanied, their family members, are admissible to enter and temporarily reside in the country. A link to the admissibility requirements of each country is located at:Canada: https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/inadmissibility.html (https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/inadmissibility.html)Applicants should review the below concerning inadmissibility: * If applicants are not admissible to a specific country, their applications for that location will not be considered further. * If applicants fails to certify that they have reviewed the admissibility requirements of the country they are applying for, their applications will not be considered further. If an applicant certifies that he or she is admissible, and the Agency later learns that the applicant was inadmissible, the application will not be considered further, and the Agency may pursue other appropriate action, as necessary. * If an applicant is selected and reports to the country, and the Agency later learns that the employee was inadmissible, the Agency may curtail the assignment, and require the employee to return to his/her permanent position in the United States. The Agency may pursue other appropriate action, as necessary. If you are unable to confirm that you meet these requirements at the time of application, you will be removed from consideration.

I confirm that I am able to meet the requirement outlined above.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙