Position Title
Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-12927520-26-AH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirement - English Proficiency:
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement - Education:
Individuals must have successfully completed a program in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's or higher degree accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (ED) and the subsequent completion of a 12-month ED accrediting body-approved program in therapeutic radiologic technology. Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75. They must have successfully completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the ED, and be radiation therapists certified by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (T).

Do you meet the education requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirement - Certification:
All applicants must be certified in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T)).

Do you possess the certification as described above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Experience Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist, GS-11:

Experience: The Lead Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist functions as a team leader for a group of TRTs who provide the full range of general and complex therapeutic radiologic oncology treatment procedures. The lead TRT provides technical oversight, distributes work assignments and provides input on performance and competencies. Assignments at this level include, but are not limited to: approving leave requests for a few hours or in emergency situations; instructing and training TRT staff on newly acquired equipment; providing orientation to staff, students, residents and others as requested; and assisting with staff scheduling, quality assurance, compliance, authoring, reviewing and updating procedures and policies. In addition, the lead TRT serves as the technical mentor, trainer and coach for the staff. The lead TRT is accountable to the next higher-level supervisor

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: Candidates must demonstrate all the KSAs below:
(a) Ability to provide technical oversight, assure compliance with standard operating procedures, distribute work assignments to lower level radiation therapists and provide input for performance appraisals and competencies.
(b) Skill in effective communication of all aspects of patient care with the radiation oncology team to include facilitating all essential communication to the Chief Radiation Therapist or leadership regarding clinical and operational issues.
(c) Ability to independently deliver, mentor and provide oversight to lower level TRTs with basic and complex radiation treatments on a linear accelerator, as prescribed by the Radiation Oncologist.
(d) Ability to instruct and train TRTs on the Record and Verify System (or other similar treatment delivery systems), newly acquired equipment, devices and products within the service.
(e) Ability to resolve informal employee disputes and concerns using problem solving skills.
(f) Ability to develop local policies and standard operating procedures.
(g) Ability to perform lead responsibilities such facilitating quality improvement activities, conducting in-service and staff meetings, conducting other departmental meetings as requested.
(h) Skill in facilitating chart rounds.

Do you meet the qualifications for the GS-10 grade level as described above?
 Yes
 No


SF-50 REMINDER: You MUST provide your most recent, non-award SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) with your application. The SF-50 must clearly reflect that you possess one-year of specialized experience, as required by the announcement. "Award" SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying length of specialized experience. If your most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you meet this requirement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50's to show that you meet the length of specialized experience requirement. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


RESUME REMINDER: For qualification determinations your resume MUST document your experience IN DETAIL and contain the following information: job title, company name, duties, start/end date (month and year), full-time or part-time status (including hours worked per week). If your resume does not meet this standard, you will not receive consideration for this position. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, provide your pay plan, occupational series and grade (i.e., GS-0301-9).


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: To substantiate your education, you MUST submit a copy of your transcript with your application. Transcript must bear the school logo, reflect the degree earned, and the date conferred. NOTE: PLEASE PROVIDE COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS FOR VERIFICATION PURPOSES (Required Document)


LICENSURE / CERTIFICATION REMINDER: To substantiate your credentials, a copy of your CURRENT licensure and/or certification MUST be submitted with your application.                            NOTE: PLEASE PROVIDE A COPY OF YOUR ARRT (T) CERTIFICATION (Required Document)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙