Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCR-26-12954612-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Chicago, IL
 D. Cincinnati, OH


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Analyst position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Analyst at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill in using office automation equipment and software packages in order to research data and conduct data analysis.

 I have experience using a spreadsheet program, such as Microsoft Excel and/or Microsoft Access to create, manage, and analyze data. Using a word processing package such as Microsoft Word to compose and edit documents. Using intra/internet browser and explorers to conduct research and using an email application for interoffice communication.
 I have experience using a word processing package such as Microsoft Word or Word Perfect to compose, proof, and edit documents, using intra/internet browser and explorers to conduct research and using an email application for interoffice communication.
 I have experience using an email application for interoffice communication.
 None of the above.


3.
Which software applications do you have experience with? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Microsoft Outlook
 B. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet applications
 C. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation applications
 D. Microsoft SharePoint application
 E. Microsoft Teams application
 F. Microsoft Word or other word-processing applications
 G. Microsoft Access or other database software
 H. Adobe Acrobat
 I. CASE-MIS
 J. None of the above


4.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience with inputting data regarding various types of casework into a computerized data retrieval and tracking system, maintaining and updating the system, and advising staff of status changes regarding the various cases?

 I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency.
 I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency.


5.
Which of the following statements describes your highest level of SharePoint creation or management?

 I have no education, training, or experience creating or maintaining SharePoint sites.
 I have had education, training, and experience in creating or maintaining SharePoint sites, but I have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have created or managed SharePoint sites, but with close supervision, or senior employee.
 As part of my regular job, I have created or managed SharePoint site.
 I have supervised performance of others, or trained others in the creation or maintaining SharePoint sites.


6.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in scheduling and conducting studies with a view toward maximizing efficiency and effectiveness through the use of automated management and information systems?

 I have more than three years of experience in scheduling and conducting studies with a view toward maximizing efficiency and effectiveness through the use of automated management and information systems.
 I have between one and three years of experience in scheduling and conducting studies with a view toward maximizing efficiency and effectiveness through the use of automated management and information systems.
 I have less than one year of experience in scheduling and conducting studies with a view toward maximizing efficiency and effectiveness through the use of automated management and information systems.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience producing reports and conducting analyses using data from a variety of sources?

 I have produced reports and conducted analyses using data from a variety of sources for my local office.
 I have produced reports and conducted analyses using data from a variety of sources for my region.
 I have produced reports and conducted analyses with a nationwide impact using data from a variety of sources.
 I have no direct experience in these tasks


8.
Choose all of the following statements that describe your experience in project management. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have communicated technical requirements to information systems personnel.
 B. I have monitored funding expenditures for accuracy and appropriateness.
 C. I have organized, coordinated, and prioritized a variety of individual and team-based activities and information systems and non-information systems projects, and worked independently or as part of a team as the situation may dictate.
 D. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my work in project management.
 E. I have used office software for uses such as data storage, retrieval, and manipulation, presentation, publishing, project management, and research and analysis.
 F. I have not performed any of the above.


9.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in establishing, implementing, and maintaining control systems for program operations or administration.

 I have played a support role in the formulation and implementation of control systems.
 I have participated on a team that analyzed program statistics and data and developed recommendations for the implementation of control systems.
 I have worked independently to analyze or have taken a leadership role in analyzing program statistics and data and developing recommendations for the implementation of control systems.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


10.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Started up and managed projects through completion.
 D. Established and monitored project progress.
 E. Made resource decisions for competing projects.
 F. Assigned tasks and monitored performance.
 G. Anticipated and resolved problems.
 H. None of the above.


11.
Please select the response that best describes your experience and/or ability to analyze and interpret information.

 I have some education, training, or experience in analyzing and interpreting information.
 I have performed basic analytical tasks in a work situation that required the interpretation of basic instructions, information or data in order to perform routine tasks or duties.
 I have performed analytical task(s) in a work situation requiring the interpretation and application of routine and non-routine information, instructions, guidelines, regulations or data in order to perform task(s) or duties.
 I have performed analytical task(s) in job situations that required the interpretation and application of non-routine and complex information, instructions, guidelines, regulations or data in order to perform task(s) or duties. I have demonstrated the ability to evaluate information and situations calling for good judgment and decision making to accomplish goals and objectives.
 I have evaluated and analyzed information using all available resources. I have extracted and analyzed precise and exact information and details obtained from observation and research. I have used appropriate analytical procedures and methods. I have assessed potential consequences of various scenarios and developed alternate solutions for the best course of action.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following best describes your experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques to analyze and measure the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of programs, as well as applying complex fact-finding analytical and problem-solving methods and techniques to identify inter-related program problems, draw conclusions and recommend solutions?

 I have more than three years of experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques as described above.
 I have between one and three years of experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques as described above.
 I have less than one year of experience using qualitative and quantitative techniques as described above.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection?

 I have extensive experience in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection, and have trained others to complete these tasks.
 I have independently prepared reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 I have played a support role in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 None of the above.


14.
Select one description which best represents your highest level of experience in interacting and achieving consensus with various groups and individuals.
 I have experience that involves routinely working with internal and external managers to resolve issues and problems which arise daily. This involves briefing managers and external stakeholders on new/revised regulations and discussing alternatives to policy.
 I have experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to programs and all parties.
 I have experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies to employees and using management techniques to ensure full compliance.
 None of the above.


15.
Please select the choice(s) below that demonstrates your ability to communicate orally. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Experience serving as a point of contact on procedural matters.
 B. Experience servicing as a liaison with the information systems personnel.
 C. Experience presenting, formally and informally, recommendations and possible solutions to problems within the organization.
 D. Experience explaining non-technical information.
 E. Experience making presentations to internal and external audiences on programmatic or administrative matters.
 F. Experience compiling and conducting training sessions.
 G. Experience participating in Executive meetings.
 H. None of the above.


16.
I have experience in writing the following: (Select all that apply.)

 A. Informational materials.
 B. Training manuals or training guidelines.
 C. Policy guidance.
 D. Inter-office memos, transmittal letters, and form letters.
 E. Technical reports.
 F. Briefing or issue papers.
 G. None of the above.


17.
From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied. (Select all that apply.)

 A. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 F. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 G. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal.
 H. None of the above.


18.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙