Position Title
Lock and Dam Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-12943070-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lock and Dam Operator with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Lock and Dam Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to assist in performing the full range of locking operations by handling lines from vessels and/or operating controls as specifically directed by higher graded personnel. I am skilled in performing routine maintenance work on manual or mechanical lock operating equipment, such as hydraulic pumps or electric motors. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to assist in performing some locking operations by handling lines from vessels and/or operating controls as specifically directed by higher graded personnel. I am skilled in deckhand or launch operator (or similar type of position) tasks on a river or other waterways including routine maintenance work on marine equipment, hydraulic equipment, or heavy equipment. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance or repair tasks. I can utilize mechanical or electrical equipment, such as lawn mowers, hedge clippers, electric drills, power wrenches, and hydraulic lifts. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance or repair tasks or have received training in this area.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙