Position Title
Financial Management Specilaist
Agency
U.S. Army Cyber Command
Announcement Number
DA-26-13064884-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Civilian Employees of the Organization Applying to Cyber Excepted Service (CES) Positions

Do you meet the following?

CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT COMPETITIVE OR EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1" or "2". 

Notes:
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category
*DOD employees can access their SF-50 at: My Biz
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Financial Management Specialist position with Department of Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Financial Management Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience which includes: 1) Analyzing cost and budget information to support effective financial planning and program execution, 2) Reviewing financial management policies and procedures to support effective budgeting and funding for assigned programs, and 3) Developing budget and financial plans to meet program needs and ensure resources are used efficiently.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙