Position Title
Associate Program Director (Interdisciplinary)
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
NSF-26-12982405 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you now a Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you now, or have you been in the last 5 years, a political appointee?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 C. 0801 - General Engineering
 D. 1301 - General Physical Science
 E. 1501 - General Mathematics And Statistics
 F. 1701 - General Education And Training


Assessment 1
1.
AD-3: Select the response that best describes your education.
 I possess a bachelor's degree in an appropriate STEM field or a related professional discipline plus six or more years of scientific research, research administration, merit review, and/or managerial experience that is pertinent to the position being filled and was gained after completion of the pertinent degree.
 I do not possess the education described above.
 I possess a master's degree in an appropriate STEM field or a related professional discipline plus three or more years of scientific research, research administration, merit review, and/or managerial experience that is pertinent to the position being filled and was gained after the completion of the pertinent degree.
 I possess a doctorate degree (Ph.D.) in an appropriate STEM field or a related professional discipline plus one or more years of scientific research, research administration, merit review, and/or managerial experience that is pertinent to the position being filled and was gained after the completion of the pertinent degree.


2.
Provide your degree major or sub-specialty. If you selected "I do not possess the level listed above" in the previous question, type "N/A" and proceed (Maximum 250 characters).


2a.
Please enter the degree level and year in which your qualifying degree was obtained (Maximum 4 characters). 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙