Position Title
Office Director, Office of Post Market Assessment
Agency
Food and Drug Administration
Announcement Number
HFP-T21E-2026-12908046 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?
You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


2.

===== Acknowledgement of Restrictions on the Employment of Relatives by Public Officials =====
5 U.S. Code, § 3110 lays out specific and important restrictions on the employment of relatives within an agency.
A public official of a government agency may not appoint, promote, or otherwise advocate for the employment, advancement, or promotion of relatives within the agency for which the public official is employed or has control over.
Employees hired in violation of 5 U.S. Code, § 3110 will not be entitled to any pay for their period of employment, and any pay already received before the violation becomes known, will be considered as a debt to the government on the part of the employed individual.

For the purpose of this question, a "relative" is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

QUESTION:
After having read the definition of "relative" as stated above, does the Food and Drug Administration employ any of your relatives?

IF YES: You must provide the following information, for each relative employed by the FDA:

The full legal name of the relative.
The relative's relationship to you (from the list above).
If known, the relative's employing organization and position.
IF NO: Please type "No" in the box below.


3.
Your responses to the all questions, and any information or documentation which you provide as part of your application, will be thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and truthfulness. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, your application will not be considered. Knowingly providing false information in your application (or submitted documentation) is a crime!
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
I understand that if I intentionally make a false statement, or commit deception or fraud in my application, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC, Sec 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR, Part 731).
I understand that any information I provide may be investigated.
I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Do you accept the conditions above?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Assessment
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Do you possess:

A. Degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position
OR
B.  Combination of Education and Experience: Courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. 

 

 Yes, I possess this education requirement
 No, I do not possess this education requirement.


2.

From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes how you meet the minimum relevant years of experience requirements for the Director, Office of Post Market Assessment, AD-0401, Band G position.

 I have a bachelor’s degree and also have at least 8 years of relevant experience as follows: (1) serving as a leader in a complex organization managing, planning, directing, and evaluating multidisciplinary activities of significant scope and effect; (2)building strong working relationships among external organizations/customers with diverse interests and/or opinions, such as professional, public health, patient safety or patient/consumer organizations, or other federal agencies; (3) identifying strategic objectives in support of organizational mission and objectives; (4) leading staff towards reaching established goals; and , (5) managing projects within a health or regulatory organization.
 I have a master’s degree and also have at least 7 years of relevant experience as follows: (1) serving as a leader in a complex organization managing, planning, directing, and evaluating multidisciplinary activities of significant scope and effect; (2)building strong working relationships among external organizations/customers with diverse interests and/or opinions, such as professional, public health, patient safety or patient/consumer organizations, or  other federal agencies; (3) identifying strategic objectives in support of organizational mission and objectives; (4) leading staff towards reaching established goals; and , (5) managing projects within a health or regulatory organization.
 I have a Doctorate and/or J.D. degree and also have at least 5 years of relevant experience as follows: (1) serving as a leader in a complex organization managing, planning, directing, and evaluating multidisciplinary activities of significant scope and effect; (2)building strong working relationships among external organizations/customers with diverse interests and/or opinions, such as professional, public health, patient safety or patient/consumer organizations, or other federal agencies; (3) identifying strategic objectives in support of organizational mission and objectives; (4) leading staff towards reaching established goals; and , (5) managing projects within a health or regulatory organization.
 I have a MD, DO, DDS, DPM, or DVM degree and also have at least 5 years of relevant experience as follows: (1) serving as a leader in a complex organization managing, planning, directing, and evaluating multidisciplinary activities of significant scope and effect; (2)building strong working relationships among external organizations/customers with diverse interests and/or opinions, such as professional, public health, patient safety or patient/consumer organizations, or other federal agencies; (3) identifying strategic objectives in support of organizational mission and objectives; (4) leading staff towards reaching established goals; and , (5) managing projects within a health or regulatory organization.
 I do not meet at least one of the requirements outlined above to qualify for this position.


3.
Desired qualification: The ideal candidate would have a food and environmental law or advanced science degree.
 Yes, I possess this qualification.
 No, I do not possess this qualification.


4.
Demonstrated experience leading large, diverse programs and managing subordinate supervisors and teams effectively, with a track record of strategic decision-making and achieving business objectives.
 Yes, I possess this qualification.
 No, I do not possess this qualification.


5.
Ability to communicate highly technical information clearly to staff at all organizational levels and varying expertise; builds strategic relationships and collaborates across boundaries to achieve common goals.
 Yes, I possess this qualification.
 No, I do not possess this qualification.


6.
Identifies and analyzes complex problems, evaluates alternative solutions, and makes sound recommendations while navigating organizational and political realities.
 Yes, I possess this qualification.
 No, I do not possess this qualification.


7.
Strong time management and organizational abilities to effectively prioritize work, lead end-to-end tasks for major projects and facilities, and move initiatives forward.
 Yes, I possess this qualification.
 No, I do not possess this qualification.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙