Position Title
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS SUPERVISOR
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12973352-AF-26-499 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 01, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training which demonstrates the ability to use and maintain tools and equipment associated with constructing, maintaining, and repairing buildings, roads, grounds, and related facilities. Experience which demonstrates the knowledge of and the ability to apply safety standards. Experience or training which demonstrates that the candidate has the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***

 Yes
 No


3.

GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training which demonstrates the ability to use and maintain tools and equipment associated with constructing, maintaining, and repairing buildings, roads, grounds, and related facilities. Experience which demonstrates the knowledge of and the ability to apply safety standards. Experience or training which demonstrates that the candidate has the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports.



3a.
Please explain your experiences relating to the above requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, applicants must have experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations. 

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?


***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


5.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, applicants must have experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.



5a.
Please explain your experiences relating to the above requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.

SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR:
Applicants must be a fully qualified 3E2 or 3E3 to be eligible for this position.

Do you meet the selective placement factor listed above?

 Yes
 No


7.

SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR:
Applicants must be a fully qualified 3E2 or 3E3 to be eligible for this position.



7a.
Please explain how you meet the requirements for the above selective placement factor.


8.

Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Immediately promotable E7 - E8)

 Yes, I am a current E7 that is immediately promotable to E8.
 Yes, I am a current E8.
 No, I do not meet the military rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement.


9.

Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙