Position Title
Biological Science Tech (Nat'l Resource Monitoring)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
OR-TEMP-26-12883670-LR Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Corvallis, OR
 B. Hines, OR
 C. Klamath Falls, OR
 D. Salem, OR
 E. Vale, OR


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
9.
Explain your knowledge of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), including basic techniques and procedures for digitizing maps and assembling geospatial databases.

 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


10.
Programs which you have performed monitoring work. (Check all that apply)
 A. Vegetation
 B. Soil
 C. Water
 D. Wildlife
 E. Aquatics
 F. Timber
 G. Silviculture
 H. Range
 I. Riparian
 J. None of the above


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


11.
Depict your education, training, and/or experience performing maintenance work in connection with range improvements.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


12.
Portray your experience associated with compiling documentation or reports of natural resource conditions (e.g., vegetative monitoring data, actual use, riparian data, etc.) for utilization in management decisions.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


13.
Specify the types of rangeland monitoring you have conducted.

 A. Upland health assessment
 B. Ecological site inventory
 C. Photo plot monitoring
 D. Daubenmire transects
 E. Line intercept transects
 F. Riparian health assessments
 G. Key forage transects
 H. Allotment evaluation
 I. Standards Conformance Review
 J. Rangeland utilization studies
 K. Riparian monitoring and/or inventory
 L. Upland trend monitoring studies, such as Daubenmire or Frequency studies.
 M. None of the above.


14.
I can read maps and am able to navigate to remote locations using topographical maps.

 Yes
 No


15.
Expound on the tasks that you have performed relating to species identification of rangeland, woodland, forest or wetland vegetation. (Check all that apply).

 A. I have identified grasses, forbs, shrubs and/or trees to species using a dichotomous key.
 B. I have identified grasses, forbs, shrubs and/or trees to subspecies or variety using a dichotomous key.
 C. I have identified non-flowering plants, lichens and/or fungi to species using a dichotomous key.
 D. I have identified grasses forbs, shrubs and/or trees to species using photos or materials other than keys.
 E. I have identified non-flowering plants, lichens and/or fungi using photos or materials other than keys.
 F. None of the above.


Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations; is sensitive to cultural diversity, race, gender, disabilities, and other individual differences.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


16.
Clarify your education, training and/or experience interacting with the public, exercising tact and diplomacy.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


17.
Your ability to communicate technical information.

 I have not presented or provided technical or non-technical information.
 I have presented or provided only non-technical information to persons on the job.
 I have made presentations or provided technical information on the job to supervisors, co-workers, and others.
 I have been acknowledged for my ability to present or provide technical and non-technical information to a variety of audiences.


18.
Skills you routinely apply in a team setting.

 I have not typically had frequent or regular interactions with other employees, classmates, teachers, and/or supervisors within a team setting.
 I have occasionally interacted with and relayed information to co-workers, classmates, teachers, and/or supervisors within a team setting.
 I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers, classmates, teachers and/or supervisors within a team setting.
 I have frequently interacted with and relayed information to co-workers, classmates, teachers, and/or supervisors within a team setting. In situations such as shifts in priorities and work assignments resulting from unexpected events, I have evaluated priorities and objectives and provided the team with advice and guidance.


Data Management - Knowledge of the principles, procedures, and tools of data management, such as modeling techniques, data backup, data recovery, data dictionaries, data warehousing, data mining, data integrity, data disposal, and data standardization processes.


19.
Describe your experience using computer software to manage and analyze resource monitoring data?
 I have extensive experience using multiple software tools (e.g., relational databases, statistical programs, GIS applications) to manage, analyze, and interpret resource monitoring data for reporting or decision-making purposes.
 I have independently used specialized software (e.g., databases, GIS tools) to manage and perform basic analysis of resource monitoring data.
 I have used basic software (e.g., spreadsheets) to enter, organize, and summarize resource monitoring data under supervision.
 I have not used computer software to manage or analyze resource monitoring data.


20.
Ability to troubleshoot and resolve common computer or software issues encountered during data entry?
 I have no experience troubleshooting computer or software issues during data entry or analysis.
 I can identify basic issues (e.g., incorrect file formats, simple error messages) and follow provided instructions or seek assistance to resolve them.
 I can independently troubleshoot and resolve common problems (e.g., data import errors, connectivity issues, software configuration) using available resources or help guides.
 I have advanced experience diagnosing and resolving complex issues (e.g., software compatibility, database errors, system performance problems) and can provide guidance or training to others.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙