Position Title
Business Activities Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
27-13082390
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Business Activities Manager
.
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Business Activities Manager. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1.
Do you possess a four-year degree in any of the following fields? (Copy of transcripts must be attached to get credit)
 Recreation or related field
 Business Administration
 Food and Beverage Management
 None of the above
2.
How many years of experience do you have in revenue-generating or for-profit activities? (Resume must reflect the experience to get credit)
 10 years or more
 7 to 10 years
 5 to 7 years
 Less than 5 years
3.
Do you currently hold a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No, but I am able to obtain one
 No, and I am not able to obtain one
4.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have? (Must be documented on your resume to get credit.)
 7 years or more
 5 to 7 years
 3 to 5 years
 1 to 3 years
 Less than a year
5.
The Business Activities Manager is a supervisory position responsible for development and oversight of Category C activities which may include but is not limited to Food/Beverage, Marina, Lodging, Specialty Retail, Bowling, and Golf. How many of the listed six activities have you worked in before?
 All 6
 5 to 6
 4 to 5
 3 to 4
 2 to 3
 1 to 2
6.
How long have you been responsible for recreation and financial management tasks such as budgeting, cost analysis, and internal controls?
 5 years or more
 3 to 5 years
 2 to 3 years
 1 to 2 years
 Les than a year
7.
How long have you been responsible for ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, policies, and precedents related to MWR programs?
 5 years or more
 3 to 5 years
 2 to 3 years
 1 to 2 years
 Less than a year
8.
Which of the following describes your ability to determine resource needs, allocate resources, and account for the effective use of Morale, Welfare and Recreation programs and activities. [Must be notated on the resume to receive credit]
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the individual asked to assist with this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a the job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have had education or training in performing the task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
9.
Which of the following best describes your professional experience with food and beverage program delivery? Must be reflected on your resume to receive credit.
 5 years or more
 3 to 5 years
 2 to 3 years
 1 to 2 years
 Less than a year
