Position Title
FUL - Wildlife Biologist (Temporary)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13061749-DE-MV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): The following counties: San Bernardino, CA; Riverside, CA

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Answer Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
BASIC EDUCATION QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT: From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for Wildlife Biologist GS-0486-09. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. You must submit proof of your degree course work. Failure to provide transcripts, course work or detailed descriptions of experience will cause you to lose consideration for this position.

 I have a Bachelor's Degree with a major in a biological science that includes the following course work: 1) at least 9 semester hours in such wildlife subjects as mammalogy, ornithology, animal ecology, wildlife management, or research courses in the field of wildlife biology; AND 2) at least 12 semester hours in zoology in such subjects as general zoology, invertebrate zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, genetics, ecology, cellular biology, parasitology, entomology, or research courses in such subjects; AND 3) at least 9 semester hours in botany the related plant sciences. NOTE: You must submit official or unofficial transcripts with your application that reflect all your course work, to receive consideration for this position. You will be required to submit an official transcript if selected for the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that is equivalent to a major in a biological science. This combination includes 1) at least 9 semester hours in wildlife subjects as described in "A" above; AND 2) 12 semester hours in zoology subjects as described in "A" above; AND 3) 9 semester hours in botany as described in "A" above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. NOTE: You must submit unofficial transcripts with your application that reflect all your course work, to receive consideration for this position. You will be required to submit an official transcript if selected for the position.
 I do not have all the required education and/or experience as described in the statements above.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS REQUIREMENT: From the descriptions below (A through D), select one response that most clearly and accurately describes your highest level of experience and/or education to perform the work of this Wildlife Biologist GS-0486-09 level. Please read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience may include: Assisting with coordinating human-wildlife conflict management strategies and programs; maintaining effective working relationships with related groups and individuals, agencies and the public.
 I have completed 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree directly related to the work of position. NOTE: You must submit unofficial transcripts with your application that reflect all of your course work, grades, and hours earned semester and/or quarter, in order to receive consideration for this position. You will be required to submit an official transcript if selected for the position.
 Equivalent Combination of Graduate Education and Specialized Experience: I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience as described in 2A above or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a field directly-related to the work of this position as described in 2B, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lowest grade level may be combined with experience. For example, I have six months of the specialized experience described above (50% of the experience requirement), and 27 semester hours or 41 quarter hours of directly related graduate level college study in an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education).
 I do not meet the education and/or experience specified above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true and correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 A. Yes
 B. No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙