Position Title
SENIOR INSURANCE REGULATORY POLICY ANALYST
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12949006-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-15, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position requires meeting both A and B below:

A. Experience in writing, researching, analyzing data, or providing legal advice in at least ONE of the following five areas of focus:

1. Financial or investment analysis relating to the insurance sector; OR
2. Property & Casualty insurance for personal or commercial lines of business such as, but not limited to, cyber insurance. OR
3. Life insurance and/or annuities. OR
4. Insurer solvency or other regulation of the insurance sector; OR
5. Terrorism risk insurance.

AND

B. Experience in at least TWO of the following three activities:

1. Developing written analyses or summaries (such as memoranda, reports, briefs or articles) regarding either:
-The economic, financial, legal, or policy issues associated with the U.S. insurance sector or
-International issues related to insurance (such as work relating to international standards or agreements, or multi-national companies). 
OR
2. Analyzing research, information, or data related to the U.S. or international insurance sector. 
OR
3. Advising on or otherwise using laws and regulations relating to insurance, or financial services, such as State or Federal insurance or financial regulation or legislation.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
From the specialized experience statement in the vacancy announcement, please indicate in which area(s) of focus you have experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Financial or investment analysis relating to the insurance sector
 B. Property & Casualty insurance for personal or commercial lines of business such as, but not limited to, cyber insurance
 C. Life insurance and/or annuities
 D. Insurer solvency or other regulation of the insurance sector
 E. Terrorism risk insurance
 F. None of the above


3.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).  Please do not write "See resume or N/A".


4.
From the specialized experience statement in the vacancy announcement, please indicate in which activities you have experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Developing written analyses or summaries (such as memoranda, reports, briefs or articles) regarding the economic, financial, legal, or policy issues associated with the U.S. insurance sector, or international issues related to insurance (such as work relating to international standards or agreements, or multi-national companies)
 B. Developing written policy documents associated with the U.S. insurance sector, or international issues related to insurance (such as work relating to international standards or agreements, or multi-national companies)
 C. Analyzing research, information, or data related to the U.S. or international insurance sector.
 D. Advising on or otherwise using laws and regulations relating to insurance, or financial services, such as State or Federal insurance or financial regulation or legislation.
 E. None of the above.


5.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).  Please do not write "See resume or N/A".


You will now be asked to complete a second assessment (Phase 2) comprised of three narrative questions. Suggested length for each job element is no more than 600 words.  Please allow sufficient time to complete before midnight on the close date of the announcement. The narrative responses are expected to take one hour, at a minimum. Non-detailed and answers such as N/A, See Resume, etc. will be deemed ineligible.

Please do not share this link with anyone else, as this exclusive link is for you to complete your application. You may need to copy and paste the link into your browser.  You will need to click on the APPLY button on the announcement and go through the 5 steps in USA Jobs to get to the narrative questions.

REMINDER: To be considered for this position, you must complete all required steps in the process. In addition to the application and questionnaire, this position requires an online assessment (Phase 2 - Exclusive Link below) that measures critical general competencies needed to perform the job.

Exclusive Link: https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/867280300


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙