Position Title
MEDICAL SERVICES PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
SC-12780863-25-153 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2025 to Aug 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions. Note that the integrity of your responses will be verified with the provided resume.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position?

Please ensure that you upload your degree for validation; failure to do so could impact your consideration for this position.

 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


2.
Please rate your experience exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities over the Office of the State Surgeon professional positions, such as: Behavior Health Providers, Physician Assistants, Nurse Practitioners, Nurse and Medical Case Management, federal employees AGRs, State Employees, Contracting Officer's Representative, Health Systems Specialists, Occupational Health Nurse, Industrial Hygiene, surge temporary work, to include but not limited to Full-Time National Guard Duty for Operational Support (FTNGD-OS).
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have 1-year equivalent to at least next lower grade level for this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙