Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-13014460-AR-26-228-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7) that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?

OR

Do you possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or
LL.B. or J.D., if related?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-9) that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?

OR

Do you possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or
LL.M., if related?
 Yes
 No


3.
Independently plans and carries out successive steps and handles problems and deviations in work assignments in accordance with instructions, policies, previous training, or accepted practices. The employee uses judgment in interpreting and adapting guidelines, such as agency policies, regulations, precedents, and work directions for application to specific cases or problems. The employee analyzes results and recommends changes. Completed work is usually evaluated for technical soundness, appropriateness, and conformity to policy and requirements.


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.
 


4.
Serves as the primary analyst regarding resource management. Performs program analysis, including planning, programming, budgeting, funds allocation, accounts management, internal controls and reporting. Provides fiscal and budgetary policy, and regulatory guidelines for the directorate. Accomplishes the full spectrum of budget functions in support of state and federal operations, training, readiness missions, natural disasters, and Homeland Defense/ Defense Support of Civil Authorities.


4a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.
 


5.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙