Position Title
Automotive Worker Supervisor (Automotive Worker Foreman)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
FPI-26-13058144 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


2.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


3.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


6.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS

LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs using shop floor control modules such as Systems Applications & Products (SAP); and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers.
 I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments and estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in evaluating performance and providing training to new workers.
 I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.
 I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew.
 None of the above.


3.
In a correctional setting, the Automotive Worker Foreman must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution.
 I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law.
 I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e., safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems.)
 None of the above.


4.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of motorized vehicles. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have assisted other mechanics in repairing heavy duty differentials/transmissions or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have repaired heavy duty differential and transmissions; and/or I have replaced MHE clutch assemblies; and/or I have installed new crankshaft; and/or I have installed new timing chains; and/or I have installed piston rings; and/or I have repaired standard transmissions; and/or I have repaired differentials; and/or I have overhauled or rebuilt engines; and/or I have removed train assemblies and replaced seals, snaprings, bearings and gears.
 I have assisted other mechanics in replacing MHE clutch assemblies and/or installing new crankshaft or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have assisted other mechanics in installing new timing chains and/or piston rings, or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have replaced shift forks and rails, reassembling units; and/or I have rebuilt transmissions and transfer cases; and/or I have one year of experience in automotive repair at the commercial level; and/or I possess one Automotive Service Excellence (ASC) certification; and/or I have instructed or supervised other mechanics in performing automotive repairs.
 I have assisted other mechanics in repairing standard transmissions/differentials or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have assisted other mechanics in overhauling or rebuilding engines or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have diagnosed and overhauled automatic transmissions and drive systems (fluid couplings-automatic transmissions), bore cylinders to oversize; and/or I have successfully completed an automotive trade school; and/or I possess several types of Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) certifications; and/or I have utilized technical manuals to instruct other mechanics on the diagnosis and repair of automatic and manual transmissions as well as electrical pneumatic and air systems.
 I have assisted other mechanics in removing power train assemblies and replacing seals/snap rings/bearings/gears or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have assisted other mechanics in replacing shift forks and rails, reassembling units or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 I have assisted other mechanics in rebuilding transmissions and transfer cases or acquired such knowledge through trades school AND I have independently repaired some of the following: generator/electrical/air conditioning/hydraulic systems, starters, alternators, multiple carburetion systems, rebuilt carburetors, arced and installed brake shoes, completed a tune-up of engines; and/or I have one year of automotive repair experience at a local service garage.
 None of the above.


5.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must have the knowledge of new and up-to-date practices in the automotive mechanic field, and the ability to use automotive trade theory in doing the more demanding or precise tasks, or in inventing new ways to do tasks that cannot be done by established procedures. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have recently demonstrated the ability to diagnose difficult repair problems; and/or I have performed diversified repair jobs associated with the automotive mechanic occupation; and/or I have completed an automotive apprenticeship or equivalent combination of experience and completion of more than one course in automotive trade theory and trade math.
 I have discovered alternate components to replace standard components and made modifications to equipment to accomplish an unusual repair demand; and/or I have independently figured out a proper degree of oversize drilling of oil passages when they were too small, causing valve failure; and/or I have interpreted the results of modern diagnostic tests; and/or I have monitored and complied with all environmental rules regarding storage and disposal of hazardous materials.
 I have ordered parts using catalogs and specifications; and/or I have used tools and testing equipment with assistance from supervisors, as needed; and/or I have performed standard automotive repair procedures.
 None of the above.


6.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to use measuring instruments in identifying the need for repair and adjustment, or in determining that tolerances and fit specifications of repaired components and assemblies have been met. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience in using or teaching other mechanics how to use a full range of test and measuring instruments which includes engine and exhaust analyzers, chassis dynamometors, test stands, dial indicators, micrometers and inside and outside calipers; and/or I have used modern emissions analysis equipment.
 I have experience in using or teaching other mechanics how to do cyclic work which required the use of most of the following measuring instruments: micrometers, calipers, special feeler and dial gauges, generator, voltage, amp testers, gear thrust and surface gauges, test benches, and oscilloscopes.
 I have used the following measuring devices and instruments in a working support role to a journeyman: battery-starter tester, compression gauge, vacuum gauge, condenser, magneto tester, tachometer, volt-ohm meters, dwell meters, ignition timing light, fuel analyzers, fuel gauge tester and stroboscope.
 None of the above.


7.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to read, understand, and apply the content and theory of instructions, manufacturers specifications, military specifications, technical manuals, trade journals, catalogs, handbooks, charts, tables, graphs, and monographs that are pertinent to vehicle and allied mechanical equipment.  From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have interpreted instructions, specifications, catalogs, technical manuals, bulletins, trade journals, handbooks, and schematics (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, and generator alternator manuals) to locate answers for complex mechanical and electrical problems, recommending the need for replacement due to obsolescence or kinds of replacement most desirable.
 I have used mechanical and electrical reference manuals (e.g. engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential, air condition/electrical system specifications, manuals for power-driven accessories, and generator alternator manuals) to make repairs and adjustments with help from a supervisor on only some of the complex problems encountered.
 I have used mechanical and electrical references (engine manuals, carburetor guides, and manufacturers specifications for transmission or differential) with help in interpretation from my supervisor on some of the complex problems.
 None of the above.


8.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to use hand and power tools as well as portable electric pneumatic tools. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have used the following tools under close supervision or in a classroom setting: wheel alignment and frame tools, front end alignment equipment, torque wrenches, impact wrenches, wheel balancers (on the car type), cylinder hone, honing machines, welding equipment, and/or brake drum lathes.
 I have frequently used the following tools to repair and adjust automotive accessories: wheel alignment and frame tools, front end alignment equipment, torque wrenches, impact wrenches, wheel balancers (on the car type), cylinder hone, honing machines, welding equipment, and/or brake drum lathes.
 I have used the following tools to perform diversified handwork in the overhaul of engines, transmissions and differentials: boring bars, crankshaft grinders, valve seat installer, valve seat grinder, valve refacer, and valve head seat grinders; and/or I have used and maintained exhaust analysis and fuel/air ratio analysis equipment.
 None of the above.


9.
Automotive Worker Supervisors must possess the ability to ascertain the causes of malfunction in automotive vehicles and allied equipment, ability to determine extent of needed repairs or adjustments, and ability to test repaired equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have identified causes of automotive malfunction which other journeyman have not been able to locate (such as discovering the cause of an uneven ride or noise after competent journeymen have failed to discover uneven drive shaft or defective axle housing).
 I have diagnosed and performed tests requiring complete knowledge of relationships among all mechanical and electrical units and systems such as voltage regulators, light systems, generators, and transmissions, with little or no assistance.
 With occasional supervision, I have experience in troubleshooting a particular system when the source of trouble is obviously in that system (e.g. transmission, differential, crankshaft assembly, etc.) and/or I have tested equipment related to delicate adjustments such as stroboscope lights for testing timing.
 None of the above.
 I have instructed other journeymen in troubleshooting problems with mechanical/electrical units and systems (such as voltage regulators, light systems, generators, transmissions, etc.).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙