Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBDT-12943849-26-KRB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the New Jersey VA Healthcare System. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Ensure you provide details in the provided narrative sections of this assessment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Please select the option that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for this position.
 I have a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, [or a closely] related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education. (A copy of your transcript will be required.)
 I have a masters degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, [or a closely] related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education. (A copy of your transcript will be required.)
 A bachelors [or masters] degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in options (a) and (b) above) and obtained a certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy. This education must have included supervised practice. (A copy of your transcript will be required.) AND Completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the Bling Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS) GS-9 grade level.
 Three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a doctoral degree in blind rehabilitation or a directly related field. (A copy of your transcript will be required.)
 I do not meet the basic requirements for this position.


3.
Certification. You must have at least two (2) to qualify for the GS-12 level. The certification must be in active, current, full, and unrestricted status.

(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS).
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
(d) Assistive technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialist (CATIS).

Please select the response that best describes the AVCREP certifications you possess.
 I possess two or more of the AVCREP certifications listed above. (Please submit copies and provide details in the narrative following this question.)
 I am not certified by AVCREP.


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding your two (2) certifications:

Active or expired:
Certification type:
State issued:
Date of original issuance:
Date of expiration:


4.
GS-12 Experience: Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist (BROS) at the GS-12 are required to meet the basic requirements and must complete a minimum of one year experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level.

Individuals in this assignment may serve as the only BROS at a medical center, or an outpatient clinic, or in patients' homes and communities, and are responsible for independent decision-making and independent care. Individuals in this assignment may serve as a member of, or as a consultant to a specialty care team, such as the Polytrauma System of Care. BROS will demonstrate mastery abilities in two of the blind/vision rehabilitation specialty areas: orientation and mobility, low vision 7 therapy, vision rehabilitation therapy, and assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals. BROS will also demonstrate advanced skill in the practice of the other content specialties in blind rehabilitation, e.g., computer training and manual skills. At the GS-12 grade level, BROS practice independently, seeking support from the Blind Rehabilitation Service National Consultant for the region when necessary.
 I meet the basic requirements and have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of this in any of the above statements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): Candidates must demonstrate all of the KSAs below:

(a) Skill to independently develop, plan, and administer complex treatment programs.
(b) Ability to act as a subject matter expert in the blind/vision rehabilitation field, and as consultant, supervisor, and/or mentor in evaluating and treating patients in specialty or program areas.
(c) Ability to coordinate, motivate, and effectively manage staff and/or committee members to include organizing work, setting priorities, and delegating tasks and responsibilities.
(d) Ability to disseminate appropriate information through various media as a consultant or mentor.
(e) Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers, and other stakeholders.
(f) Ability to identify team group dynamics, objectively observe, and modify behaviors.
(g) Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on a day-to-day basis, to develop short-term and long-range goals, and to plan for future utilization of resources.

Do you meet the knowledge, skills and abilities as noted above?
 Yes
 No


Please Note: Once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:

*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable). 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙