Position Title
Supervisory Benefits Specialist (Division Chief)
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-26-IMP-015-12940469 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in the agency hiring for this position?
If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized Experience Requirement (GS-15): To qualify for the GS-15 grade level, you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service.  Your experience must include all of the following:
Setting priorities and advising employees to ensure effective workforce performance and accomplishment of program oversight objectives.
Developing and maintaining ongoing liaison with contractors and the Agency to monitor performance and ensure contractual requirements are satisfied.

Your resume must clearly demonstrate this experience and include work schedule/hours per week for each position. Based on the specialized experience described above, choose the response that best reflects your background:
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in all of the areas described above.
 No, I do not have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in all of the areas described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙