Position Title
Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responder)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13065873-26-VPM Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


2.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


4.
Resume Reminder Instructions - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Employer Name
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week if part-time)
Four digit occupational series code and grade level for all Federal positions you have held (only applicable to Federal positions)
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Do you confirm that the above information is clearly stated for each work entry you are claiming experience for, and that each entry is full time unless otherwise annotated with part-time hours?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Staffing: Part I, Chapter 3, Section A, pre-employment reference checks are an assessment method used in the hiring and selection process to verify the information provided by an internal or external candidate, gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities, and assist a hiring official with making a final selection for a position.

In the textbox below, please provide the following for at least 3 professional references. One of these references must be your current supervisor. If a current supervisor is not available, you may provide a previous supervisor within the previous three years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted.
Name
Affiliation (i.e. supervisor, co-worker, professor, etc.)
Dates of affiliation
Position title
Organization
Telephone number
Email address
By providing this information and submitting your application, you are consenting to Human Resources Staff and/or Hiring Managers contacting your references.

If a supervisory reference is not available, you may provide an alternate or additional reference from a professional source, such as a co-worker, professor, or other individual who has directly observed your work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, etc.

If a candidate does not grant permission to conduct reference checks with current/former supervisors or a hiring official is unable to reach at least one supervisory reference, and the candidate is unable to provide any alternative references, a hiring official must document and communicate the lack of acceptable references to the HR staff. A hiring official must consider the lack of acceptable references as a factor during the selection process if they were unable to verify work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, and so forth. A hiring official must cease selection consideration of that candidate.

Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following are requirements for appointment as a Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responder) within the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The VCL connects Veterans and Service members in crisis, along with their families and others, with qualified Social Science Specialists (also known as Crisis Responders) through a confidential toll-free hotline, online chat, or text. Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responders) are trained to assist Veterans and Service members through various kinds of behavioral health crisis situations by providing support and referrals to VA and local services. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirements: Select the ONE statement below that best describes your education and experience to meet the basic requirements for this position.

 Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university. The degree must be in a behavioral health or social science related field appropriate to the work of the position (e.g., psychology, social work, sociology, family counseling, mental health counseling, nursing, ministry and criminal justice) *Transcripts Required*
 Two years of specialized experience as a first responder (e.g., Police, Medic, Emergency Medical Technician, Emergency Dispatch, etc.) or in a social science related field that included behavioral health crisis response, AND two years of higher education (i.e., above the high school level) from an accredited college or university in a behavioral health or social science related field appropriate to the work of the position (e.g., psychology, social work, sociology, family counseling, mental health counseling, nursing, ministry and criminal justice). *Transcripts Required*
 Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in any field AND one year of specialized experience that included behavioral health crisis response or mental health counseling. *Transcripts Required*
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education requirements necessary to meet the basic requirements for the position.


4.
GS-11 Experience/Education Requirement: Select the ONE statement below that best describes your education and/or experience for this position.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience is defined as: Performing crisis intervention work in a clinical behavioral health setting; conducting risk assessments with contacts experiencing an emotional crisis and as a result, may harm themselves or others; coordinating with team members to initiate emergency services or create facility transportation plans, as clinically appropriate; and engaging multiple entities, including law enforcement, medical and mental health providers, and third parties.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree from an accredited college or university in a behavioral health related field appropriate to the work of the position (e.g., psychology, social work, sociology, or family counseling). *Transcripts Required*
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GS-11 level.


5.
You must be able to demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) for appointment at this grade level and assignment. Please choose a response below in regards to the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to provide an evidenced based crisis intervention through a variety of modalities (e.g., telephone interviews, chat/text services, or social media forums).
(b) Ability to carry out crisis management steps while withholding judgment on controversial behaviors and not imposing one's values during the contact.
(c) Ability to effectively prioritize complex problems quickly and respond appropriately in a crisis situation.

 I possess the KSAs listed above.
 I do not possess the KSAs listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Are you willing and able to work nights, weekends, and holidays as needed to support the 24/7 operations of the Veterans Crisis Line?
 Yes
 No


Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙