Position Title
SUPV ELECTRONICS ENGINEER- COMPUTER SCIENTIST- OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST- DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-INTERDISC-12994360-CL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 C. 1515 - Operations Research
 D. 1550 - Computer Science


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Supervisory Computer Engineer, NH-0854-04; Supervisory Electronics Engineer, NH-0855-04; and/or Supervisory Computer Scientist, NH-1550-04. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of the Supervisory Computer Scientist, 1550 at the NH-04/GS-13 broadband/grade level or equivalent in the Federal Service. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in computer science or bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions.
 My experience and education is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the the letter that best describes the education you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for engineering positions of Supervisory General Engineer, (0801); Supervisory Electronics Engineer, (0801) or Supervisory Computer Engineer, (0854), at the NH-04 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts. NOTE: You will be required to provide transcripts.
 I have a Bachelors or higher degree in a professional engineering curriculum from a school that is NOT ABET accredited, but my education included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the following seven disciplines: (A) statistics or dynamics, (B) strength of materials (stress, strain relationships), (C) fluid mechanics or hydraulics, (D) thermodynamics, (E) electrical fields and circuits, (F) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), and (G) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics, and I have submitted a copy of my college transcripts. NOTE: You will be required to provide transcripts.
 I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B) above, but I am registered as a professional engineer in a State, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. In addition, I have a combination of education and experience. NOTE: You will be required to provide transcripts.
 I do not have a degree as described in (A) or (B), but I have passed the Engineer in Training (EIT) examination, and in addition, I have a combination of education in the field of engineering and professional engineering experience, and I have provided a copy of my unofficial transcripts and a copy of my EIT certification. NOTE: You will be required to provide transcripts.
 I do not have a degree as described in a (A) or (B) above, but I have completed at least 60 semester hours of course work in the Physical, Mathematical, and Engineering Sciences. This course work included differential and integral calculus, as well as courses in at least five of the seven areas listed in response (B). Also, I have professional engineering experience. NOTE: You will be required to provide transcripts. I have a Bachelor or higher degree in engineering technology, chemistry, physics, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology, or another scientific field directly related to engineering. In addition, I have several years of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance and I have provided a copy of the completed training plan and my unofficial transcripts. NOTE: You will be required to provide transcripts.
 I do not have any education or experience as described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Operations Research Analyst (NH-1515-04), grade level or equivalent pay band in combination with the mandatory education requirements identified in the job opportunity announcement. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in Degree: in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 My education is not reflected in any of the above statements


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of the : SUPV ELECTRONICS ENGINEER, SUPV COMPUTER SCIENTIST, SUPV OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST,NH- 0801, 0855,1550,1515 at the NH-04/GS-13 broadband/grade level or equivalent in the Federal Service. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I meet the basic education requirements for an NH-0801-04 or NH-0855-04 or NH-1550-04 or NH-1515-04 and I have, or within 90 days of the closing date will have, at least one year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband (NH-03) or grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service or equivalent in other pay systems which includes governing, interfacing with, and/or influencing systems acquisition, development, and/or sustainment; and knowledge of planning, programming, and budgeting cycles, financial systems, and restrictions on expenditure of funds. Along with evaluating state-of-the-art and advancements in theory, application, technology, and policy affecting systems being developed, and in planning, organizing, and directing the functions and staff in critical aspects of development, production, and/or support of systems, subsystems, or equipment. NOTE: You must submit copies of your official college transcripts.
 My experience and education is not reflected in the above statement.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


5.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙