Position Title
HEALTH SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13054596-AF-26-039
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 31, 2026
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 Yes
 No
Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?
 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 AW - 145 OPS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 AW - 145 OPS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.
2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E5/SSgt - E8/SMSgt)?
 Yes
 No
0671-09-D1119000-NCNG
.
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered. &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-09 Health System Specialist.
 I HAVE a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level, and 1) basic principles and concepts of of the occupational series and grade.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-09 Health System Specialist.
 I HAVE at least 12 months experience, education, or training, 1) which provided a working knowledge of missions, organizations, programs and requirements of health care delivery systems, 2) analyzing and recommending solutions to complicated problems, 3) developing and implementing various policies and procedures used in the state medical programs, and 4) involving various administrative areas such as budget, personnel and public relations within a medical activity.
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of the experience, education or training listed above.
