Position Title
Work/Life Consultant
Agency
Air Force Civilian Career Training
Announcement Number
PATHWAYS-FY26-FS-CSA-JLE-3 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


3.
Pathways Recent Graduates - Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Vandenberg AFB, CA
 B. Offutt AFB, NE
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
 E. Minot AFB, ND


2.
I am a current permanent or former federal employee with less than 52 weeks break in the competitive service and I am applying for this position to be considered as a:
 Promotion Candidate - I am eligible for promotion consideration since I have held the next lower grade for at least 52 weeks on a permanent basis in the competitive service or I am a current FWS employee. NOTE: You must submit a copy of SF-50(s) that demonstrate you meet the one year time-in-grade requirement if applicable (i.e., Promotion, Within Grade/Rate Increase).
 Repromotion Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive repromotion consideration since I have held a higher grade on a permanent basis in the competitive federal service or a permanent position with the same or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Reassignment Candidate - I am eligible for non-competitive reassignment consideration since I currently hold a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis held on a permanent basis.
 Non-competitive Voluntary Change to Lower Grade (CLG) Candidate - I am eligible and requesting consideration for a Voluntary CLG since I have held, or currently hold a permanent competitive service position at a higher grade in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your current permanent position.
 I am not eligible for any of the above considerations.


3.
I am a current or prior military member of the Armed Forces that is retiring or has been retired less than 180 days. Hiring (appointments or transfers) of retiring or retired members of the Armed Forces to positions in any DoD Component during the 180 days immediately following retirement may only be made IAW DoDI 1402.01 and may require a waiver for appointment prior to the 180 days from official military retirement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Current or Former Political Appointees: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
-OR-
Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are currently employed in a permanent General Schedule (GS) position in the competitive service or held a GS position within the previous 52 weeks, please identify your current grade held in a permanent position with inclusive dates, (e.g. 03 Jan 2015 to present). If your current grade is not your highest grade held, please provide both your current grade (with inclusive dates) and your highest grade held grade with inclusive dates, (e.g. 01 Jan 2014 to 02 Jan 2015). If you have not held a GS position in the last 52 weeks, you may skip this question. (Note: Your SF-50's should support the highest grade held).


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
All applicants must complete the following section. This section will be used to determine your ability and willingness to accept certain conditions of employment or meet certain requirements of the position. Please respond 'Yes' or 'No' to the following statements. Failure to respond to this section will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-7, Work-Life Consultant work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.
 I have completed all requirements for a bachelor, master, professional, or doctorate degree from a qualifying educational institution within the previous two years. OR
 I was released or discharged from active duty within the previous two years, but due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying for a recent graduate position during any portion of the two-year eligibility period following completion of my degree, not more than six years have transpired since I completed the requirements for degree.
 My educational requirements/eligibility are not reflected in any of the above statements.


The following section is used to determine if you meet the minimum entry qualification requirement.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform Social Science work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.

 A degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR
 Combination of education and experience -- that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. OR
 Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


The following section is used to determine if you meet the minimum specialized experience and/or directly related education.


3.
In addition to meeting the minimum entry qualification requirements, applicants must demonstrate specialized experience and/or directly related education. This section asks you to describe your educational background, your work, and other experiences in specific factors which relate to job performance. Mark only one response.
 I have one full year (18 semester hours or equivalent) of graduate level study, or possess a master's or higher degree, e.g., LL.B, J.D., LL.M., Ph.D., in a field that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. Such fields include behavioral or social sciences. (SUBMIT COPY OF TRANSCRIPT(S))
 I have Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) at the undergraduate level in one of the following: a) Class standing-upper third of the graduating class based on completed courses in the college, university, or major subdivision; b) Grade Point Average 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on your official transcript or as computed based on 4 years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of curriculum; OR 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in your major field or the required courses in your major field completed during the final 2 years of your curriculum. c) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society (note: freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position). (Submit a copy of your transcript. Degree Audits are not acceptable. If qualifying based on class standing or honor society membership, provide appropriate documentation).
 I have at one year (12 months) of work experience in interviewing, assessing clients' needs and concerns (e.g. family separation, parenting, child care, elder care, etc.) and evaluating and interpreting data received from interviews; providing counseling on work/life issues and interest areas such as personal financial management, employment, community like, transition, relocation, emergency/crisis assistance, personal and family readiness, and other work/life issues. This experience MUST be equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in Federal service, which could have been obtained in the private or public sectors.
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "A" and less than the amount of experience described in "C," but I have a combination of the type of education described in "A" and the type of experience described in "C." To compute, first determine your graduate education as a percentage of the education required in "A"; then determine your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required in "C". Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal to at least 100%. (SUBMIT COPY OF TRANSCRIPT)
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements.


The following section is used to determine category rating based on your education, Grade Point Average (GPA) and/or experience.


4.
Pleas ONLY select the appropriate category based on you education and/or experience.
 Best Qualified: Master's or Bachelor's degree or with overall GPA of 3.50 or higher
 Highly Qualified: Bachelor's degree with overall GPA of 2.95 to 3.49
 Qualified: Bachelor's degree with overall GPA of 2.95 to 3.49


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included within this application is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


5.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙