Position Title
Supervisory General Engineer
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12890988-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Screen-out
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience and must meet at least three of the five specialized experience statements to be fully qualified.

 I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-03/GS-13) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) and I meet two of the three specialized experience listed. Specialized Experience is defined as: Applying the principles methods and techniques in one or more engineering disciplines such as civil mechanical architectural environmental or electrical in order to provide facilities support and advice to senior engineers regarding quality of life and safety of the design and construction activities at assigned sites and facilities. Applying the full range of principle concepts and methods associated with the life-cycle management of civil works projects from planning to operating those projects in order to execute assigned projects and define establish and direct organizational engineering focus on challenging and highly complex projects or programs. Analyzing specialized studies fact-finding report preparation and presentations for the agency and Department of Defense financial regulations relating to space facilities manpower real and personal property and military construction in a staff environment. Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 My experience does not meet the requirements listed above.


2.
I meet the following basic education requirements to qualify for the NH-0801 series.
 Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the curriculum must: (1) lead to a bachelors degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics and I have included my transcripts with my application.
 I have current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. I have listed information about this registration and transcripts with my application.
 I have evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico and I have attached a copy of my EIT examination certificate to my application.
 I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum as described in choice A and I have included my transcript with my application.
 I have a related bachelor degree (e.g. engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology or geology AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. I have proof of this experience via a signed letter by my supervisor verifying the training received and/or duties I performed as a professional engineer and my transcripts with my application.
 My education is not listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙