Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECH (ROI)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12969123-26-SBT Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 01, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) (Release of Information (ROI)) in the Veterans Health Administration(VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRT (ROI) assignments in the GS-0675 series. The MRT (ROI) reviews and processes requests for patient protected health information (PHI). The MRT (ROI) also provides direct customer service to the Veteran (or third party), by providing copies of the Veteran's PHI, when a signed, written request is received, or upon the Veteran's valid authorization to a third party.


Definitions: Journey Level: The full performance level for the MRT (ROI) assignment is GS-6. Creditable Experience: Experience is only creditable if it is paid or non-paid employment directly related to the position to be filled, or in a related field such as medical support assistants, ward clerks, health record file room/scanning technicians, incomplete health record analysis, medical coding, or other positions that included knowledge of the content and use of health records. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current release of information practice. Quality of Experience: To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume, and verified through an employment reference or other independent means. Part-Time Experience: Part-time experience as a professional MRT (ROI) is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a MRT (ROI) would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.


1.
English Language Proficiency. MRT ROIs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


2.
All Medical Records Technician (Release of Information) are required to have at least one of the following basic required Experience and/or Education: Select the appropriate statement that best describes your experience and/or education.

 Experience: One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT (ROI) work.
 Education: An associates degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 Experience/Education Combination: Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following experience and educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses. (b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. The training program may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy and physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.
 Grandfathering Provision: As of December 10, 2019, I was employed in VHA as a permanent MRT ROI, and I am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. I may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation, but will not be promoted beyond the journey level (GS-06) or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
 I do not have the basic education and or experience for the MRT ROI position as listed in A-D above.


Grade Requirements. In addition to the basic requirement, the following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (Release of Information). Education and experience will be verified.


Experience or Education for the MRT ROI, GS-04, none beyond the basic requirements Assignment: Medical Records Technician Release of Information (ROI), GS-4 Entry Level: Employees at this level serve in entry level MRT (ROI) position and receive close supervision and support from more experienced ROI staff members. MRTs (ROI) receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information, and prioritize requests per policies and regulations. They use various computer applications to track and release all authorized ROI requests. They process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors. MRTs (ROI) initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. They ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information.


3.
For the MRT ROI, GS-05, select the option that best describes your experience and/or education.

Employees at this grade level serve in developmental positions as MRTs (ROI) and receive guidance from more experienced staff members for complex release of information procedures. They receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests according to policies and regulations. They utilize various computer applications to track and release all authorized release of information requests. They also process and release health information to authorized first- and third-party requestors. They initiate and maintain accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. They communicate with internal and external stakeholders to provide technical expertise regarding the release of information process. They ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: (a) Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products utilized in MRT (ROI) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, release of information systems, etc.). (b) Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and processes for disclosing protected health information. (c) Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work in order to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues. (d) Knowledge of policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information. (e) Ability to communicate with individuals from various backgrounds to obtain the desired effect or gaining information by establishing rapport.

 I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower level, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-05 MRT ROI position. This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 I have a bachelors degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). Must provide transcripts with your application
 I do not have the education or experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSA for the MRT ROI , GS-05.


4.
For the MRT ROI, GS-06, select the option that best describes your experience.

This is considered the journey level for MRT (ROI) positions. Employees at this level apply, interpret, and analyze laws and regulations related to the disclosure of health information. MRTs (ROI) are responsible for educating requestors on requirements for submitting requests for health information. They receive and validate authorization forms and requests for information and prioritize requests according to policies and regulations. They use various computer applications to track and release all authorized release of information requests. MRTs (ROI) process and release health information to authorized first- and third- party requestors. They initiate and maintain the accounting of disclosure for all records disclosed from a Privacy Act system of records. They communicate with internal and external stakeholders to provide technical expertise regarding the release of information process. They ensure compliance with policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and 38 U.S.C. ? 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records). (b) Ability to apply health record documentation guidelines and processes to navigate efficiently through the paper and/or electronic health record to locate, assemble, and disclose protected health information. (c) Ability to apply policies, procedures, laws, and regulations governing privacy and release of information to process requests for release of information. (d) Ability to research and solve difficult questions related to release of health information in an accurate and timely manner.

 I have one of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-06, MRT ROI. This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 I do not have the experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-06 MRT ROI.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙