Position Title
Assistant Human Resources Officer (SSBP) NTE 1 Year
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZO-12999528-26-VAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marion, IL
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Poplar Bluff, MO


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Assistant Human Resources Officer - Senior Strategic Business Partner position. Be sure to read and understand the Area of Consideration and the Qualifications for this position before submitting your application.


1.
Time-in-Grade Restrictions: I understand that I must provide an SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action, to verify my eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement and to verify that I possess the time-in-grade requirements for the position. The following information is provided to assist applicants in the submission of appropriate SF-50s to verify eligibility and time-in-grade requirements:

To verify your eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement, you must provide your most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must also be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade as outlined in the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's to document time-in-grade include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50s at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Applicants must submit current (within 12 months of the closing date of this announcement) non-award SF-50 and any additional SF-50s for verification of Time in Grade, if applicable.
 
 I acknowledge that I have read the above information regarding SF-50 documentation requirements and understand that I must submit appropriate documentation to verify both eligibility and time-in-grade requirements. This includes submission of my most recent SF-50 and any additional SF-50s as identified above that may be necessary to support my time-in-grade eligibility.
 I have NOT read the above information regarding SF-50 documentation requirements, however, I understand that I am still responsible for providing appropriate documentation to verify both eligibility and time-in-grade requirements even if I have elected not to read this information.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirement: To qualify for the HR Specialist position, candidates must meet the following basic requirements as described in one of the following methods:

a. Method 1: Merit-Based Method. The Merit-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following specialized experience: The candidate must possess one year of specialized experience requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying basic HR concepts, laws, principles, policies, methods, practices and/or HR systems. Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. This experience must be equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government. OR, 

b. Method 2: Education-Based Method. The Education-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Successful completion of bachelor's degree (or higher). OR,

c. Method 3: Training-Based Method. The Training-Based Method allows for a candidate to meet the basic requirement by possession of the following: Six months of general experience, equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government, requiring knowledge of and/or skill in applying laws, regulations, rules, principles, policies, methods, practices, supporting customers, communicating in writing and/or verbally and using various computer systems and office equipment in administrative, professional, technical or other responsible work positions, plus the possession of one of the four training criteria.
Training 1: Successful completion of at least 12 credit hours of college-level (associate degree or higher level) course work in any of the following types of fields, majors or programs or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs: HR (general), HR development, HR management, business, business management/administration, industrial relations, labor relations, industrial psychology, organizational psychology, organizational development, management, organizational behavior, pre-law/law, legal studies, health care management/administration, public administration, public policy, human services, leadership and humanities.
Training 2: Successful completion of at least four formal training courses in HR. The focus of these HR courses will be in areas or those closely related to general HR, Federal HR, private sector/corporate HR or HR management. These courses must be offered through VA (i.e., Talent Management System courses), Federal agencies/departments (i.e., OPM Federal Human Resources Institute) or through external organizations (i.e., HR Certification Institute (HRCI®) Learning, HR University or Management Concepts). For the purpose of this standard, formal means interactive (online or in-person) training that includes communication between the participants and/or the instructor. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of successful completion by the training organization.
Training 3: Successful completion of a formal certificate program in any of the areas (or related areas) listed in Training 1 (above) or those closely related as evidenced by the course or programs. A formal certificate program for the purposes of this standard means a series or set of courses that provide a foundational or advanced knowledge. The courses must have been provided by an accredited college, university, organization or company and must have required assignments and/or other course work. Examples of providers include, but are not limited to, Purdue University, Global Cornell University (i.e., eCornell) or Wharton School. Successful completion is evidenced by documentation of completion by the training organization.
Training 4: Current professional HR certification through the Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM), HRCI®, International Public Management Association (IPMA) (or Public Sector HR Association (PSHRA)), American Society for Health Care Human Resources Administration (ASHHRA) or an organization or company that has a formal structure and is nationally recognized by the profession.

Do you meet the basic requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision: HR Specialists, GS-0201, employed in VA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
HR Specialists who are grandfathered into the GS-0201 occupational series may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level of a career ladder, promoted to a higher grade or changed to a lower grade within the occupation.
HR Specialists who are grandfathered into the GS-0201 occupational series can be placed in a lead, supervisory or managerial position through an appropriate position change without meeting the basic requirements required in this standard but must meet the grade level requirements.
HR Specialists who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not be extended or reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard.
HR Specialists serving on an appointment that leads to noncompetitive conversion to the competitive service may be extended on that appointment or converted to the competitive service without meeting the basic requirements of this standard, but they must meet the grade level requirements.
HR Specialists who are grandfathered under this provision that leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


3.
Grade Level Qualification Requirements: In addition to the basic requirements, applicants must also meet the grade level qualification requirements.

Carefully read the following statements and select the ONE that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-14 level. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.

 I have a graduate level degree or higher AND three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Serving as advisor and consultant to executive leadership; formulating and implementing human resources polices involving at least one core human resources function (i.e. recruitment, staffing and placement, position management, manpower, classification, pay administration, employee and labor relations, employee training and development); providing advice/guidance to management/supervisors on human resource management principles, techniques and acceptable practices, as well as technical advice on propriety of statutory, regulatory and procedural requirements; collaborating with facility executives and VISN leadership to execute and align human capital goals and priorities; supporting VA leadership by participating in organizational goals such as Resource Management Services, Succession Planning, Emergency Management, Diversity and Inclusion, Activations Planning, etc.; advising leadership and provides responses to proposed legislation, policies, and standards of higher authority regarding human resources issues; to include requests from members of Congress, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM); providing analysis and recommendations to senior management officials on various Human Resources programs and issues; working knowledge of recruitment/placement rules and regulations, employee and labor relations, and succession planning; and performs internal management of HR staff; applying consensus building, negotiation, coalition building, and conflict resolution techniques sufficient to establish and maintain effective relationships and to interact appropriately in highly charged emotional situations for the purpose of influencing managers or other officials to accept and implement findings and recommendations for justifying and resolving matters involving significant or controversial issues.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level.
 I do not have the education and/or experience described above, therefore, I do not qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙