Position Title
SMALL ARMS REPAIRER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12904375-AR-T32-026-013 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 05, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current nationwide military/prior members willing and eligible to become National Guard members.  Are you a current military or prior member willing and eligible to become a National Guard member?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Nationwide: Are you a member of the New Mexico Army National Guard or current, prior, Active Duty, or Reserve military member eligible and wiling to become a member of the New Mexico Army National Guard?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please input your current military rank and MOS:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have experience or training with substantial mechanical skill is required to effectively and efficiently repair, overhaul, and rebuild small arms for both conventional uses and for weapons involving accurization?
 Yes
 No


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


4.
Knowledge of and ability to apply technical manuals, regulations, specifications and drawings to determine operation, assembly and tolerances of the variety of weapons worked on is required for successful performance.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


5.
Skill in using and maintaining a variety of hand and power tools that include drills, files, precision gages and measuring instruments, magnafluxing equipment and/or borescopes.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


6.
Knowledge and skill to inspect, diagnose malfunctioning, wear and/or damage.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙