Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SSO-CAHQ-26-13067844-DE-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Local Field Unit Definition
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Independence National Historical Park is defined as the following counties: Philadelphia, Montgomery, Bucks, Delaware, Berks, Lancaster, Lehigh, Northampton, and Chester in Pennsylvania; Camden, Burlington, Gloucester, Salem, Cumberland, and Mercer in New Jersey; New Castle in Delaware; and Cecil in Maryland. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the FUL - Utility Systems Repairer-Operator (Seasonal), WG-4742-10 position.


BASIC EXPERIENCE SECTION: THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT ALL RESPONSES. IF NOT, YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED AND/OR YOU WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Utility Systems Repairer-Operator (Seasonal), WG-4742-10


1.
Select the response below that best describes your skill and ability to perform the work of a Utility Systems Repairer Operator, WG-10. Please provide evidence of this skill and ability in your resume. Select only one response. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these ability requirements, you will not receive consideration for this position.
 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Utility Systems Repairer-Operator tasks as an expert with a high degree of independence. I have performed all the following tasks: 1) maintaining and repairing of complex mechanical, electromechanical, electrical and pneumatic equipment pertaining to heating, cooling, ventilation, and digital controls; 2) installing new and repairing existing heating and cooling systems to include: refrigeration compressors and condensers, boilers, and ventilation units, and associated ducts, pipes, wiring, and circuit protection; 3) troubleshooting heating, cooling, ventilation, and digital control systems to determine the source of malfunctions; and 4) replacing sub-components of heating, cooling, ventilation, and control systems to restore proper operation.
 I am able to perform most of the Utility Systems Repairer-Operator tasks on my own initiative and under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I have performed most of the following tasks: 1) maintaining and repairing of complex mechanical, electromechanical, electrical and pneumatic equipment pertaining to water and wastewater treatment functions; 2) installing new and repairing existing heating and cooling systems to include: refrigeration compressors and condensers, boilers, and ventilation units, and associated ducts, pipes, wiring, and circuit protection; 3) troubleshooting heating, cooling, ventilation, and digital control systems to determine the source of malfunctions; and 4) replacing sub-components of heating, cooling, ventilation, and control systems to restore proper operation.
 I am able to perform some of the Utility Systems Repairer-Operator tasks without more than normal supervision. I have performed some of the following tasks: 1) maintaining and repairing of complex mechanical, electromechanical, electrical and pneumatic equipment pertaining to heating, cooling, ventilation, and digital controls; 2) installing new and repairing existing heating and cooling systems to include: refrigeration compressors and condensers, boilers, and ventilation units, and associated ducts, pipes, wiring, and circuit protection; 3) troubleshooting heating, cooling, ventilation, and digital control systems to determine the source of malfunctions; and 4) replacing sub-components of heating, cooling, ventilation, and control systems to restore proper operation.
 I am able to perform the common Utility Systems Repairer-Operator duties under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Utility Systems Repairer- Operator who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed. Duties performed include: working knowledge as a helper to a journeyman Utility Systems Repairer-Operator of the processes and regulatory compliance of heating, cooling, ventilation, and digital control systems; the conditions of equipment such as compressors, condensers, boilers, actuators, and digital control boxes; standard operating procedures for the systems; and industry skills and practices related to the materials, repair parts, diagnostic equipment, installation procedures, tools, and regulatory codes associated with heating and cooling systems.
 I am interested in this position, but I do not have training or work experience described above at the levels indicated above.


CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
This position requires a valid driver's license.  Do you possess a current, valid driver's license?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires a special condition that has been determined to be essential to perform the duties and will be used as a screen out element. If you do not provide evidence that you possess the following condition of employment, you will be rated not qualified. Condition of employment:  
 
EPA 608 Universal Certification

Do you currently possess, or will possess by the start of employment, this certification?
 Yes
 No


Application Integrity


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙