Position Title
Management Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-146R Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the statement that best describes your Specialized experience at the NF 02 / GS 04 level.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience.
 I have less than year of specialized experience.


2.
Please select the statement that best describes your general office/computer skills and ability to prepare written correspondence, spreadsheets and other information both in writing and verbally?
 I have more than 2 years of office and computer skills sufficient to prepare written correspondence and spreadsheets.
 I have 1 to 2 years of office and computer skills sufficient to prepare written correspondence and spreadsheets.
 I have less than 1 year or do not possess office and computer skills sufficient to prepare written correspondence and spreadsheets.
 I do not have this experience.


3.
Please select the statement that best describes your knowledge of information management regulations such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing?
 I have more than 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 I have more than 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for a private (non-government) organization.
 I have 1 to 2 years of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for a private (non-government) organization.
 I have less than 1 year of information management regulation knowledge such as those related to correspondence, mail, publications and filing. I gained this knowledge by working for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD private (non-government) organization.
 I do not have this experience.


4.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience planning, managing daily administrative functions, analyzing information on a variety of programs, preparing reports and providing assistance to office staff.
 I have more than 2 years of experience performing the above functions with a U.S. Government organization.
 I have 1-2 years of experience performing the above functions with a U.S. Government organization.
 I have more than 2 years of experience performing the above functions with a private (non-government) organization.
 I have 1-2 years of experience performing the above functions with a private (non-government) organization.
 I have less than 1 year or no experience performing the above functions with a U.S. Government organization and/or a private (non-government) organization.
 I do not have this experience.


5.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience assisting with the development, review, interpretation and draft of regulations, directives, memoranda and policy on administrative functions including determining the extent the organization is affected and advises operating officials.
 My resume demonstrates more than 2 years of experience performing this task for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 My resume demonstrates 1 to 2 years of experience performing this task for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD.
 My resume demonstrates more than 2 years of experience performing this task for a private (non-government) organization.
 My resume demonstrates 1 to 2 years of experience performing this task for for a private (non-government) organization.
 My resume demonstrates less than 1 year or no experience performing this task for an agency within the U.S. Government/DoD private (non-government) organization.
 I do not have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙