Position Title
Land Surveyor
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
BLM-CA-DE-26-13021897-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atascadero, CA
 B. Redding, CA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine if you meet the Individual Occupational Requitement (IOR) for this position.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for the Land Surveyor Series (1373)?

 I have successfully completed a degree; in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis. The civil engineering major must have included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments.
 I have a Combination of education and experience -- courses equivalent to a major in land surveying or civil engineering as described in paragraph A, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I have a current registration as a land surveyor in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia obtained by written examination. Registration must have been obtained under conditions outlined in the National Council of Engineering Examiners (NCEE) Unified Model Law for Registration of Surveyors. (You must show evidence of registration based on successful completion of the written examinations.)
 I do not meet any of the IOR requirements.


INSTRUCTIONS: Minimum qualifications for Land Surveyor, GS-1373


2.
In addition to the Individual Occupational Requirements, applicants must also meet specialized experience. Select the response that describes your experience as it pertains to the specialized experience requirement for the position at the GS-07 grade level.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level. Examples of specialized experience may include (1) Functioning as a member of a survey crew; (2) Establish or monument survey corners and boundaries; and (3) Utilizing surveying equipment and instruments, such as global positioning systems or total stations.
 I have one year of graduate-level education (18 semester hours) in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis that included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. This education is clearly supported by my transcripts provided in my application packet.
 I have a combination of qualifying education and experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. This experience is described in my resume/application and I will submit copies of my college transcripts.
 I have Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.). S.A.A. is based on successful completion of a Bachelor's degree and meeting one of the following: (1) Class Standing, (2) Grade-Point Average, or (3) Honor Society Membership. - (1) Class Standing: Upper one-third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision based on completed courses. (2) Grade-Point Average: A grade point average of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B or better) as recorded on the official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; -or- (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 0 (B+ or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum. (3) Election to Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society: Applicants may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies. Freshman scholastic honor societies cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position. NOTE: Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. To qualify under this option you must submit transcripts (official or unofficial) to verify your education.
 I do not have the experience and/or education listed above.


3.
In addition to the Individual Occupational Requirements, applicants must also meet specialized experience. Select the response that describes your experience as it pertains to the specialized experience requirement for the position at the GS-09 grade level.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level. Examples of specialized experience may include: (1) Interpreting survey records; (2) Recovering and measuring physical survey evidence; (3) Completing survey computations; (4) Operating, adjusting, or maintaining survey equipment and instruments, such as global positioning systems or total stations; and (5) Planning and conducting surveying projects.
 I have 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis that included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. This education is clearly supported by my transcripts provided in my application packet.
 I have a combination of qualifying education and experience. Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. This experience is described in my resume/application and I will submit copies of my college transcripts.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education as described above


4.
In addition to the Individual Occupational Requirements, applicants must also meet specialized experience. Select the response that describes your experience as it pertains to the specialized experience requirement for the position at the GS-11 grade level

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level. Examples of specialized experience may include: (1) Interpreting survey records; (2) Recovering and measuring physical survey evidence; (3) Completing survey computations; (4) Operating, adjusting, or maintaining survey equipment and instruments, such as global positioning systems or total stations; and (5) Planning and conducting surveying projects. (6) Training lower graded surveyors in principles and the execution of surveys (7) Performing survey work in accordance with The Manual of Surveying Instructions and the Public Land Survey System.
 I have completed three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree, or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis that included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. This education is clearly supported by my transcripts provided in my application packet.
 A combination of education and experience as described in 1 and 2 above which together equals 100% of the requirement.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Two-page resume acknowledgement


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.

 Yes
 No


Certification Statement


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙