Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
317-26-SM-13016064-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describes your experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION REQUIREMENT: - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent VBA employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a current, permanent VBA employee or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 I am Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible.
 My status is not described in the options above.


Please ensure your resume clearly supports your responses to the questions below. We will not make any assumption about your experience.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. Your responses will be subject to verification. You must provide SF-50s to prove time in grade. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks' time in-grade. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your most recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit and SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time in-grade.


2.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-09 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the GS-11 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-09 level or higher.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-09 level.


Basic Requirement/IOR: In order to be found qualified, applicants must meet the Individual Occupational Requirement below: Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level (GS-09) in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.
Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization.
Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.
Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization.
Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
OR

Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a major field of study such as public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position

OR
three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.


3.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in federal service OR education as described above that meets the Individual Occupational Requirement ?
 Yes, I possess at least 52 weeks of specialized experience, as described above, equivalent to the GS-09 level in federal service that meets the Individual Occupational Requirement.
 Yes, I possess the education described above that meets the Individual Occupational Requirement.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience or the education described above that meets the Individual Occupational Requirement.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: In addition to the above Basic Requirement/IOR, applicants must also meet the Specialized Experience requirement. To qualify for the Support Services Specialist at the GS-11 grade level, applicants must have one year of specialized GS-09 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as:
Experience developing and interpreting administrative policies and requirements and reviewing the work of other team members.
Experience assisting with any facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects; and analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs.
Experience with the renovation of existing office space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, and/or minor construction, etc.
Experience administering government regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, and/or security standards which can be gained through such activities as conducting safety and/or security inspections, assisting or monitoring a safety and/or security program, and/or identifying and/or resolving safety and/or security deficiencies.
Experience analyzing use of space and facilities, safety and/or security inspections, and/or minor construction budgets, etc. and advising management accordingly.
Experience in property management, inventory of supplies and/or equipment, procurement of supplies and/or equipment, and/or vehicle management, etc.
Experience in administration and management of an identity card program, to include card stock inventory management, card issuance, administrative oversight of role-holders, and issuing cards, as necessary.


4.
Do you possess at least 52 weeks of specialized experience, as described above, equivalent to the GS-09 level in federal service?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent at the GS-9 grade level as describe above.
 My experience is not reflected in the statement above, therefore I am not qualified.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙