Position Title
Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12952389-26-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist position with the Federal government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. This section addresses the basic qualifications for this vacancy announcement. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Registered Respiratory Therapists appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f)


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No. I am not proficient in spoken and written English. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


PRE-EMPLOYMENT PHYSICAL: Applicants must undergo a pre-employment physical examination and be medically suitable to perform the essential duties of the Registered Respiratory Therapist efficiently and without hazard to themselves and others.


2.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination/physical, TB test, and other medical related requirements?
 Yes. I am willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination/physical, TB test, and other medical related requirements.
 No. I am not willing to undergo a pre-employment medical examination/physical, TB test, and other medical related requirements. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: EDUCATION: Respond to questions for education, experience, and certification requirements for the position of Registered Respiratory Therapist (TRANSCRIPTS MUST BE SUBMITTED.).


3.
Have you successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor?
 Yes. I have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.
 No. I have not completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


LICENSURE: Registered Respiratory Therapists in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain a full, current, and unrestricted license from a state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapist ( A COPY OF YOUR LICENSURE MUST BE SUBMITTED.)


4.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist license?
 Yes. I possess a full, current, and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist license.
 No. I do not possess a full, current and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist license. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


CREDENTIAL: Registered Respiratory Therapists in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain a valid, current, and unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist (A COPY OF YOUR CREDENTIAL MUST BE SUBMITTED.).


5.
Do you possess a valid, current unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist credential?
 Yes. I possess a valid, current, and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist credential.
 No. I do not possess a valid, current, and unrestricted Registered Respiratory Therapist credential. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


6.
EXPERIENCE, LICENSE AND CREDENTIAL FOR GS-12: In applying for the Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position, do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level,
AND Certification. Incumbent must hold a CPFT or RPFT
AND have documented in your resume demonstrating the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):

a. Knowledge of complex pulmonary function testing to include but not limited to cardiopulmonary stress testing, exercise testing, metabolic testing, bronchoprovocation testing and shunt testing.
b. Ability to establish a quality control program related to pulmonary function lab.
c. Skill in analyzing physiologic specimen and information from basic diagnostic procedures.
d. Skill in assessing for signs and symptoms of adverse actions to medications and or testing procedures.
e. Skill in determining appropriate intervention for adverse actions to medications and or testing procedures.
f. Ability to provide training in advanced pulmonary function procedures.
g. Ability to provide clinical consultation in advanced pulmonary function procedures.
 Yes. I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, hold an active license and RRT credential, and have documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above.
 No. I do not possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level, do not hold an active license and RRT credential, and have not documented in my resume demonstrating the KSAs mentioned above. I understand that I am not eligible for this position.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job Title * Duties (be as detailed and specific as possible highlighting the knowledges, skills, and abilities above) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2014 to April 2015 or 06/2014 to 04/2015) * Full-Time or Part-Time Status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. ALL INFORMATION MUST BE CURRENT AND ALL DOCUMENTS MUST BE SIGNED WITHIN THE LAST 6 MONTHS!


ALL INFORMATION MUST BE CURRENT AND ALL DOCUMENTS MUST BE SIGNED WITHIN THE LAST 6 MONTHS!


FEDERAL EMPLOYEE: SF-50 Reminder: Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. (limit characters).


TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information provided above and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙