Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
323-26-PB-13022828-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in the Program Specialist position with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), Jackson Regional Benefit Office. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Choose the answers below that best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience, and/or education. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.

NOTE: You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility!


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Jackson, MS, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees, and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible. For this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees."


1.
Are you a current, permanent Jackson, MS, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employee?

 Yes, I am currently a permanent employee of the Jackson VBA Regional Office, and I will submit my most recent non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.

NOTE: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, and/or within-grade increase SF-50. Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information. Please select the appropriate response below for each grade level.


2.
GS-09: At the GS-09 grade level, applicants must have served 52 weeks at the GS-7 grade level (or higher) by the closing date of this announcement. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I possess the 52 weeks at the GS-7 level (or higher) for the Time in Grade.
 No, I do not possess the 52 weeks at the GS-7 level for the Time in Grade.


3.
GS-11: At the GS-11 grade level, applicants must have served 52 weeks at the GS-9 grade level (or higher) by the closing date of this announcement. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 Yes, I possess the 52 weeks at the GS-9 level (or higher) for the Time in Grade.
 No, I do not possess the 52 weeks at the GS-9 level for the Time in Grade.


4.
GS-12: At the GS-12 grade level, applicants must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade level (or higher) by the closing date of this announcement. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 Yes, I possess the 52 weeks at the GS-11 level (or higher) for the Time in Grade.
 No, I do not possess the 52 weeks at the GS-11 level for the Time in Grade.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: In addition to Time-in-Grade requirements, your application documents must also demonstrate that you meet the specialized experience requirements for the Program Specialist GS-0301-9/11/12.

NOTE: A resume no longer than two pages must be submitted with your application materials. Please ensure your resume clearly supports your responses to the questions below. We will not make any assumptions about your experience. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.


5.
GS-09:  To qualify for GS-09:  Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as: assisting with the administration of federal human resources programs by applying established rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; compiling and tracking HR-related data (e.g., personnel actions, leave records, or staffing metrics) to support office operations; and responding to routine inquiries from employees and supervisors on general HR and administrative matters under regular supervision.
 Yes, I have a minimum of one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. (You must provide supporting transcripts)
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-9 level. Equivalent combinations of (1) specialized experience and (2) a Master's or equivalent graduate education. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (You must provide supporting transcripts)
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements


6.
GS-11: To qualify for GS-011: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-9 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: administering or coordinating one or more human resources program areas by applying federal HR rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; analyzing HR-related administrative processes and recommending improvements; and providing guidance to employees and supervisors on a variety of HR and program functions (e.g., staffing support, benefits administration, records management, or workforce data reporting) with limited supervision.
 Yes, I have a minimum of one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related to the competencies.
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-11 level. Equivalent combinations of (1) specialized experience and (2) PH.D graduate education. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (The applicant's first 2 years of graduate study are not qualifying for GS-11.)
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


7.
GS-12: To qualify for GS-12: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience which was at the GS-11 level and must have been held in the Federal Government. Specialized experience is defined as: independently managing or overseeing human resources program functions by interpreting and applying federal rules, regulations, policies, and procedures; providing authoritative guidance and advice to employees, supervisors, and management officials on complex or sensitive HR and administrative program issues; developing or revising internal procedures to improve program operations; and serving as a technical point of contact or subject matter expert on HR program matters with minimal oversight.
 Yes, I have a minimum of one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher as described in the vacancy announcement.
 My experience is not reflected above; therefore, I do not meet the requirements and will not be considered.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true and correct. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙