Position Title
Supv Medical Records Technician (Coder)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12954694-26-DMM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder) position with the Robley Rex VA Medical Center, in Louisville KY. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


Citizenship. Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Handbook chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, Part II.)


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen.
 No, I am NOT a U.S. Citizen.


English Language Proficiency. MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).


2.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


Definitions: (a.) Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with current practice and must be paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder). (b.) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference or through other independent means. (c.) Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional MRT is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time work week. For example, an MRT would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.


3.
All MRT (Coders) are required to have at least one of the following basic required Experience and/or Education: Select the appropriate statement that best describes your experience and/or education.

 Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records. (Experience must be documented in your resume.)
 Education. An associate degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records) (Must provide transcripts.)
 Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed.
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to an MRT (Coder).
 I do not have the experience and/or education listed above.


Apprentice/Associate Level Certification. This is considered an entry level coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA), or the American Academy of Professional Coders (AAPC). To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in coding across a wide range of services. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of apprentice/associate level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of apprentice/associate level certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current apprentice/associate level certifications include: Certified Coding Associate (CCA), Certified Professional Coder-Apprentice (CPC-A) and Certified Outpatient Coding-Apprentice (COC-A). Mastery Level Certification. This is considered a higher-level health information management or coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA or AAPC. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current mastery level certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P), Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT), Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder COC), Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC). Loss of Credential. Following initial certification, credentials must be maintained through rigorous continuing education, ensuring the highest level of competency for employers and consumers. An employee in this occupation who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment. At the discretion of the appointing official, an employee may be reassigned to another occupation for which he/she qualifies, if a placement opportunity exists.


4.
Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (A), (B), or (C) below. Select the statement that best describes your certification. (Documentation must be provided to support your selection.)

 Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. (Must provide copy of certification)
 Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. (CCS, CCS-P, RHIT, RHIA, CPC, COC) (Must provide copy of certification)
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS. (Must provide copy of certification)
 This requirement does not apply to me, as I am covered by the grandfathering exclusion, as I have been in the occupation before December 10, 2019. (Must provide SF-50 dated before 12/10/2019 and your most recent SF-50)
 I do not have the required certification.


The following questions are used for grade determination as a Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder), GS-0675-10. Experience will be verified.


Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder Outpatient and inpatient), GS-10, assignment: For all assignments above the journey level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Supervisory MRTs (Coder) are responsible for supervising coding staff at the facility level. Supervisory MRTs (Coder) must be able to perform all duties of a MRT (Coder). The supervisory coder is responsible for the supervision, administrative management, and direction of coding staff. They are responsible for program management of a coding section/unit to ensure performance monitors are established and met. They perform a full range of supervisory responsibilities, to include evaluating the performance of subordinate staff, approving sick and annual leave requests, identifying educational or training needs, resolving employee complaints, and taking disciplinary actions, when necessary. They inform higher level management of anticipated vacancies or increases in workload. They recommend employees for promotions, reassignments, recognitions, retention or release of probationary employees, or other changes of assigned personnel. They make decisions on the selection of employees for vacant or new positions. They serve as an expert coding resource to ensure accuracy and integrity of all coding. They collaborate with revenue, compliance, and other departments to support coding accuracy that is consistent with the official guidelines for coding and reporting. They resolve claim edits referred to coding management and monitor reports for outstanding services, rejects, or uncoded episodes of care for inpatients and/or outpatients. The supervisory coder ensures claim denials related to coding errors are resolved, and/or daily coding rejects are corrected for accurate billing and data collection. They provide education to clinical and coding staff. They assess current audit findings and evaluate impact to coding and documentation practices. They oversee the reporting of coding and documentation audit results to leadership. They collect and prepare data for studies involving inpatient stays and outpatient encounters for clinical evaluation purposes, prepare and maintain a variety of complex records and daily, monthly, or "on demand" reports, as requested. The supervisory coder creates and monitors outpatient reports, inpatient case mix reports, top DRGs, and key performance indicators to identify patterns, trends, and variations. They investigate and evaluate potential causes for changes or problems and collaborate with the appropriate staff to effect resolution or explain variances. They participate in the formulation of objectives and strategies utilizing coded data to support goals for patient care, teaching, research, and optimizing management of resources. Supervisory MRTs whose assignments involve two or more MRT specialty areas will be assigned the parenthetical title for the predominant specialty area.


To qualify for the Supervisory GS-10 MRT(Coder), you must have at least one-year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. This creditable experience does not have to be in federal service, however, must be equivalent to the next lower grade level. In Addition to the experience, you must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: (1) Ability to perform a full range of supervisory duties, to include recommending awards, approving leave, evaluating work, resolving staff issues, and assigning, planning, and coordinating work to ensure duties are completed in an accurate and timely fashion. (2) Advanced knowledge of current coding classification systems such as ICD, CPT, and HCPCS for the subspecialty being assigned (outpatient, inpatient, outpatient and inpatient combined) (3) Ability to provide or coordinate staff development and training. (4) Leadership and managerial skills, including skill in interpersonal relations and conflict resolution to deal with employees, team leaders, and managers. (5) Ability to collect and analyze data, identify trends, and present results in various formats.


5.
For the GS-10 Supervisory Medical Records Technician MRT(Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), do you have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade?

 Yes, I have one or more years of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade as a Medical Record Technician and I can demonstrate the KSAs listed above, which is clearly documented in my resume.
 No, I do not have the one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade as a Supervisory MRT (Coder).


Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder), GS-10 must have the Mastery level certification. Mastery Level Certification. This is considered a higher-level health information management or coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA or AAPC. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current mastery level certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P), Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT), Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder COC), Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).


6.
For certification verification for the GS-10, Supervisory MRT(Coder). Select the option that best describes your mastery level of certification. You MUST document this certification in your resume AND provide a copy of the certification with your application.

 Certified Coding Specialist (CCS),
 Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P),
 Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT),
 Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA),
 Certified Professional Coder (CPC),
 Certified Outpatient Coder COC),
 Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).
 I do not have a master level certification as described above.


Resume Reminder- ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer's Name (2.) Employer's City, State (3.) Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008 or 06/07-04/08) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week for part-time schedules...i.e. 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


7.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed.
 No, I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy. I understand failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred


Additional required documentation may be required such as transcripts, copy of certification from an approved AHIMA or AAPC website, and applications and will be indication in the vacancy announcement as "Required". Failure to provide the "Required" document(s) will result in not being referred.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRT work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions from the course number that the listed courses meet the requirements. (REQUIRED) Military training must be documented on the DD214 and a copy of the DD214 must be provided.


Certification Reminder- Persons hired or reassigned to Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder), GS-10, positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have the Mastery level certification. Mastery Level Certification. This is considered a higher-level health information management or coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA or AAPC. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current mastery level certifications include: (1) Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), (2) Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P), (3) Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT), (4) Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), (5) Certified Professional Coder (CPC), (6) Certified Outpatient Coder COC), (7) Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC). Proof of certification must be provided from one or both of the following Websites: https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx OR https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx. NOTE: Failure to provide proof of your current Certification with your application will result in NOT being referred.


8.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instructions and failure to provide the required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement, failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 No, I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙