Position Title
(INTERDISCIPLINARY) Research Microbiologist/Research Veterinary Medical Officer
Agency
Agricultural Research Service
Announcement Number
ARS-D26NBAF-12970259-MDS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14
15


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0403 - Microbiology
 B. 0701 - Veterinary Medical Science


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for the Research Microbiologist/ Veterinary Medical Officer position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.


1.
Select the answer below that describes your education/experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for the Microbiology Series (0403). If you select A or B, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I have a degree in microbiology; or biology, chemistry, or basic medical science that included at least 20 semester hours in microbiology and other subjects related to the study of microorganisms, and 20 semester hours in the physical and mathematical sciences combining course work in organic chemistry or biochemistry, physics, and college algebra, or their equivalent.
 I do not have a degree as described above; however, I do have a combination of education and experience. Specifically, I have course work equivalent to a major in microbiology, biology, chemistry, or basic medical science that included courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 My education/experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
Select the answer below that describes your education/experience as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for the Veterinary Medical Science series (0701). If you select A or B, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I successfully completed a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) or equivalent degree, i.e., Veterinary Medical Doctor (VMD), obtained at a school or college of veterinary medicine accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education. The AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org (external link), has a listing of all AVMA-accredited veterinary medical schools.
 I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical program that is not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education and I meet one of the following requirements: Proof of certification of their final transcript by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG) ; Possession of a permanent, full, and unrestricted license to practice veterinary medicine in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States that includes successful completion of the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) or its predecessors, the National Board Examination (NBE) and the Clinical Competency Test (CCT). Proof that the education obtained in a foreign veterinary medical program is equivalent to that gained in a veterinary medical program that is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education. Under this provision, equivalency is established only if an AVMA-accredited veterinary medical school or college accepts the graduate's final transcript from the foreign veterinary medical school at full value for placement into an advanced degree, postgraduate educational program, or training program (e.g., residency or graduate program). In addition, graduates of foreign veterinary medical programs must also provide proof of proficiency in the English language by successfully completing one of the nationally and internationally recognized examinations that incorporate assessments of reading, writing, listening, and speaking skills. Examples of examinations that assess mastery of the English language can be found in this link: http://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualificationstandards/0700/veterinary-medical-science-series-0701/.
 My education/experience is not reflected in the above statements.


Questions 3 and 4 are the minimum qualification questions at the GS-12 and GS-13 grade level for the GS-0701 series ONLY. Questions 5 and 6 are the minimum qualification questions at the GS-12 and GS-13 grade level for the GS-0403 series


3.
From the choices below, please select the response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-12 level. Your resume must clearly support the response you select, and you must provide the supporting documentation, or you may be rated as not qualified. (For the 0701 series ONLY)

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Service independently implementing scientific principles, methods, and processes to conduct a systematic and objective inquiry into animal diseases and host-pathogen relationships dealing with the zoonotic arthropod-borne viruses.
 I have completed a master’s degree in an area of specialization, including but not limited to, animal science, avian medicine, food safety, infectious diseases, veterinary clinical sciences, pathobiology, biomedical sciences, veterinary anatomy, veterinary preventive medicine, comparative biological sciences, epidemiology, veterinary parasitology, molecular veterinary biosciences, public health, microbiology, pathology, immunology, laboratory animal medicine, toxicology, wildlife, zoological animal medicine, or sciences related to the work of a veterinary medical officer position.
 I have completed two years of an internship, residency program, or fellowship training program in a discipline related to the position such as veterinary microbiology, immunology, or pathology.
 I do not meet the related education or specialized experience requirements as described above.


4.
From the choices below, please select the response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-13 level. Your resume must clearly support the response you select, and you must provide the supporting documentation, or you may be rated as not qualified. (For the 0701 series ONLY)

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service experience in animal and/or arthropod work collecting samples for molecular analysis in compliance with US government animal welfare regulations and experience independently researching the molecular virology of zoonotic arthropod-borne viruses as evidenced through publications.
 I have completed a Ph.D. degree in an area of specialization, including but not limited to, animal science, avian medicine, food safety, infectious diseases, veterinary clinical sciences, pathobiology, biomedical sciences, veterinary anatomy, veterinary preventive medicine, comparative biological sciences, epidemiology, veterinary parasitology, molecular veterinary biosciences, public health, microbiology, pathology, immunology, laboratory animal medicine, toxicology, wildlife, zoological animal medicine, or sciences related to the work of a veterinary medical officer position.
 I have completed three years of an internship, residency program, or fellowship training program in a discipline related to the position such as veterinary microbiology, immunology, or pathology.
 I have successfully completed all requirements for a Diplomate status in an American Board of Veterinary Specialties (ABVS) recognized specialty organization. Such specialties may include, but are not limited to, veterinary toxicology, laboratory animal medicine, poultry veterinary medicine, theriogenology, veterinary anesthesiology, veterinary behaviorists, veterinary clinical pharmacology, veterinary dermatology, veterinary emergency and critical care, veterinary internal medicine, veterinary microbiology, veterinary nutrition, veterinary ophthalmology, veterinary pathology, veterinary preventive medicine, veterinary radiology, veterinary medicine, and veterinary dentistry.
 I do not meet the related education or specialized experience requirements as described above.


5.
Choose one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-12 grade level. Your resume must clearly support the response you select, and you must provide the supporting documentation, or you may be rated as not qualified. (For the 0403 series ONLY)

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Service independently implementing scientific principles, methods, and processes to conduct a systematic and objective inquiry into animal diseases and host-pathogen relationships dealing with the zoonotic arthropod-borne viruses.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree directly related to the duties of the position (i.e., Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM), Microbiology, Molecular Biology, or Immunology).
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience.
 I do not meet the related education or specialized experience requirements as described above.


6.
Choose one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the GS-13 grade level. Your resume must clearly support the response you select, and you must provide the supporting documentation, or you may be rated as not qualified. (For the 0403 series ONLY)

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal Service experience in animal and/or arthropod work collecting samples for molecular analysis in compliance with US government animal welfare regulations and experience independently researching the molecular virology of zoonotic arthropod-borne viruses as evidenced through publications.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above.


Questions 8 and 9 are the minimum qualification questions for the GS-14 and GS-15 grade levels for both the GS-0701 and GS-0403 series. They must be answered if you would like to be considered for those grade levels. No matter what series you are applying for.


7.
From the choices below, please select the response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-14 grade level. Your resume must clearly support the response you select, or you may be rated as not qualified.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal Service experience leading the planning and implementation of molecular virology-based study against zoonotic arthropod-borne virus-based diseases with accomplishments in virology and host-vector-pathogen interactions as demonstrated in scientific publications in peer-reviewed journals, books, or similar scientific literature.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above.


8.
From the choices below, please select the response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-15 grade level. Your resume must clearly support the response you select, or you may be rated as not qualified.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal Service that includes a reputation that serves as a recruiting tool to your organization and experience in research that has led to international recognition as a technical authority and leader in virology of zoonotic arthropod-borne viruses AND research that has led to you receiving awards, honors, or recognition from major national and international organizations, in this related field.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above.


9.
Select the statement that best reflects your education and/or experience.
 A. I possess one or more of the following: (1) a GPA of 2.7 or higher for a degree from an accredited junior college, college, university or other baccalaureate institution; or (2) a GPA of 3.0 or higher in my major field of study for a degree from an accredited junior college, college, university or other baccalaureate institution; or (3) a GPA of 2.7 or higher for at least 24 semester hours of directly related course work (i.e. veterinary medicine, veterinary diagnostics, microbiology, immunology, molecular biology) above the high school level. If you answer yes, please submit a copy of your transcripts.
 B. I am a member of a national honor society (other than a freshman honor society) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 C. I have completed all requirements for an advanced degree (beyond the baccalaureate) in a directly related field from an accredited institution. Directly related fields of study include an advanced degree in microbiology, virology, or immunology. If you answer yes, please submit a copy of your transcripts.
 D. I have experience in understanding the convergence point of three phylogenetically distinct organisms-viruses, mammalian hosts, and insect vectors. Consequently, it requires the integration of diverse and thorough knowledge of basic and applied research concepts in virology, molecular and cell biology, innate immunology, epidemiology, phylogenetics, and infectious diseases. A thorough working knowledge of biosafety and biosecurity up to BSL-3+/BSL-3Ag is required, as well as knowledge of local, state, and federal regulations associated with animal care and use, and handling pathogenic organisms.
 E. I do not possess any of the education and/or experience described above.


10.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent, or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙