Position Title
Agency
Announcement Number
Opens in new window
Open Period
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Public:(External to Agency) - Current Career United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General, United States Postal Service and United States Postal Inspection Service WILL NOT be considered or selected from this vacancy announcement.  Do you meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bethesda, MD
 B. Eagan, MN
 C. Saint Charles, MO
 D. Saint Louis, MO


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


3.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


5.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


6.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Eligibility Requirement - U.S. Public Only 

 
This announcement is only open externally to U.S. Citizens and nationals only.
 
All others are ineligible for this announcement and will not be considered.


Do you meet that requirement?


 Yes
 No


2.
Education/Experience Requirement (0511 Auditor Series)


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.

Refer to the following list of acceptable related degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to: Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a degree in auditing or a related field from the provided list, such as accounting, business administration, finance, or public administration from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in performance auditing or an equivalent combination of auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) or Certified Public Accountant (CPA) certification obtained through written examination, or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional (Full-Time) Auditing Experience Qualification Requirement:


Please select which matches your level of experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 Less than one (1) year of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 More than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.
 Four (4) or more years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits. I will submit my resume to reflect the selected experience.


4.
Certified Public Accountant (CPA) License Requirement


To be eligible for this position, applicants must hold an active Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license.

Select the option that best matches your current certification status.

 I am a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and will submit my certification with my application.
 I do not currently have an active Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Career Ladder Opportunity Information & Requirements:

This is a Journey Band Career Ladder position. The Career Ladder program provides for annual pay increases through the pay band based on specific requirements.

Note about the Journey Band: The US Postal Service Office of Inspector General is Excepted Service, uses pay bands, and our Journey Band covers equivalents of GS-07 through GS-13. This specific announcement covers GS-11 through GS-13 equivalents.

If approved, the employee will receive (on their anniversary date) an increase in base salary of:
Six (6) percent OR
The amount needed to bring salary to Step-1 of the next equivalent GS grade, whichever is greater.

Approval is dependent on the managers certification that:
The employee can perform satisfactorily at the next GS equivalent grade, AND
They receive a PES (evaluation) rating of "Met Expectations" or higher.

Once the employee has reached the equivalent GS-13 level they have graduated from the Career Ladder program and future increases are covered by the Performance Evaluation System (PES).

Please acknowledge you have read the above summary of the Career Ladder program. You may have an opportunity to ask more about this program during the interview stage.
 Yes
 No


6.
In-Office Requirement:

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the office location for which you are selected.

The following locations are available for consideration:
Bethesda, MD
Eagan, MN
St. Charles, MO
St. Louis, MO
Select the location(s) that you are interested in and would be able to report to during core business hours.
 A. Bethesda, MD
 B. Eagan, MN
 D. St. Louis, MO
 E. I am not interested in any of the listed locations.
 C. St. Charles, MO


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation


This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct corresponding document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload all required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license/certificate
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


8.
Certification of Accuracy: 

 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.

Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙