Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
346-26-KDT-13042082-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Lakewood, WA
 B. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veteran Affairs Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Area of Consideration, Time-in-Grade, Specialized Experience and/or Education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on your resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs Veterans Benefits Administration and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
TIME-IN-GRADE - For a GS-07 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-05 grade level, or higher, by the closing date of this announcement. Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response.)

 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-05 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 I have held a GS-07 or higher grade.
 Neither A nor B apply to me, there for I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement.


3.
TIME-IN-GRADE - For a GS-09 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-07 grade level, or higher, by the closing date of this announcement. Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response.)

 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 I have held a GS-09 or higher grade.
 Neither A nor B apply to me, there for do not meet the time-in-grade requirement.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
To qualify at the GS-07 grade applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level of difficulty and responsibility in the Federal service.  Experience includes providing and performing operational and administrative tasks in support of an organization and applying basic analytical techniques to resolve program issues and problems.  Examples of specialized experience for the GS-7 level include, but are not limited to:
Providing administrative support services to office staff in the areas of travel, tracking action items, scheduling/calendar oversight;
Explaining program-related information to visitors and callers;
Managing phone and reception activities in a diverse and busy office;
Preparing and editing correspondence using standardized computer software;
Completing projects requiring experience using computer programs that manage data and information
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned at least one full year of graduate level education OR have been awarded a bachelor's degree (or equivalent undergraduate degree) in a curriculum that is qualifying for this position from an accredited college or university. The undergraduate degree MUST meet one of the superior academic achievement provisions in a field that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (see announcement for details on superior academic achievement).
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


5.
To qualify at the GS-09 grade, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level of difficulty and responsibility in the Federal service.  Experience includes providing and performing operational, administrative, budget and procurement-related tasks and applying analytical techniques to resolve veteran benefit-related program issues.  Examples of specialized experience for the GS-7 level include, but are not limited to:
Providing administrative support services to managers in the areas of travel, budget and procurement, tracking action items, and scheduling/calendar oversight;
Explaining veteran benefit program-related information to visitors and callers.
Managing phone and reception activities in a diverse and busy office that may receive distinguished visitors;
Preparing and editing complex correspondence using standardized computer software;
Completing projects of a technical nature requiring experience with data analysis and information management programs
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a master's or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙