Position Title
Customer Experience Manager
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12910955-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience is fifty-two (52) weeks of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Identifying program effectiveness and making recommendations to improve performance; AND
- Recommending goals, strategies, and plans required to meet program objectives; AND
- Leading or managing a team of employees and monitoring their progress towards achieving project goals and objectives.



1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


3.
From the following list, please select the order management systems with which you have experience:
 A. Commerce Agent
 B. Other order management
 C. None of the above


4.
Indicate your experience gathering and evaluating information and conducting analysis on customer service program performance.
 A. I have applied analytical and evaluation practices, theories, methods, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues (e.g. financial controls, office budgets, customer service improvements, etc.).
 B. I have tracked and monitored completion of office assignments and prepared reports that evaluate results and document any trends.
 C. I have obtained accurate and sufficient information in response to industry or public inquiries and recommended responses based on evaluation of the information.
 D. I have conducted analysis, reviews and studies of operational and customer service programs and processes in order to provide recommended solutions and improvements for the efficiency and effectiveness of the program.
 E. I have performed none of the above.


5.
Choose the statements that describe your experience with customer service support contracts or customer service/order management systems
implementations.
 A. I have performed acquisition planning for customer service support contracts or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 B. I have performed requirements gathering for customer service support contracts or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 C. I have developed performance work statements for customer service support contracts or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 D. I have lead proposal evaluation teams for customer service support contracts or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 E. I have been the COTR for customer service support contracts or customer service/order management systems implementations.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


7.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience in preparing written materials such as business requirements documents, business process models, business cases, statements of work, briefing papers, and correspondence (and other materials) to various individuals and audiences.
 I have prepared written documents, such as transmittal memos and e-mail, which cover routine issues, and recipients are usually within my division.
 I have been a participant in preparing business requirement documents, statements of work, and briefing papers, which cover routine issues, with some complex elements, and recipients are usually within my organization.
 I have prepared business requirement documents, functional statements, business cases, statements of work, briefing papers, and correspondence (and other materials) which cover complex issues, and recipients are individuals and organizations outside my own organization, including customers, and middle or senior management within or outside of the organization.
 I have prepared a wide variety of complex written materials involving issues or projects of a sensitive and controversial nature, and recipients are a wide range of individuals and groups both within and outside my organization.
 None of the above


8.
Select one choice that describes your experience in oral communication.
 I have served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments.
 I have justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This includes communicating effectively and harmoniously with a full range of internal and external individuals or groups (representatives from agencies, industry leaders, congressional staff etc.).
 I have conducted discussions or participated in workgroups as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement in order to obtain the desired effect, e.g.
 I have served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


9.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


10.
From the following list, select all of the management duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have been responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 D. I have developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 E. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. I have interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. I have addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 I. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervision.
 J. I have followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 K. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Please select the response that best describes your experience establishing objectives and performance goals, based on changing requirements.
 I have supervisory experience developing and monitoring programmatic and performance goals and objectives for a multi-tiered organization with diverse program objectives. Experience included independently establishing target dates, planning work to be accomplished and achieving goals for varied programs, which are subject to outside influence and interest.
 I have experience formulating programmatic and performance goals and objectives within a single-tiered organization or program. Experience includes coordinating changes to establish target dates with higher level management and ensuring that the implementations of assigned program objectives are achieved.
 I have experience assuring that programs are operating in accordance with set policies, standards, and procedures and those operating goals, deadlines, and service requirements are achieved.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙