Position Title
Health Technician (Audiology) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-13040231-26-EMC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Aug 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Florence, KY
 B. Cincinnati, OH


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Cincinnati VA Medical Center. Your responses to the assessment questionnaire will be reviewed along with the information provided in your resume and supporting documentation to determine if you are qualified for the position. If, after reviewing your resume and or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications and/or experience, you may lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully. Errors or omissions may affect your eligibility. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility and minimum qualifications related to this position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Requirements - This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Health Technician (Audiology), GS-0640 at the GS-04 grade level.


1.
EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATIONPlease select the most appropriate response that describes your Experience and/or Education qualifications; you may only select one response.Note: If you are basing some or all of your qualification based on Education, transcripts must be submitted with your application package.
 Experience: I have six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. For example: assisting with patient assessment and treatment, infection control and cleaning, supply and equipment tracking, maintaining supply levels.
 Education: I have successfully completed two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor’s degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position. (Transcripts Required)
 Experience/Education Combination: I have equivalent combinations of experience and education. An example of a combination of experience/education is three months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry. (Transcripts Required)
 I do not posses the required Experience and/or Education listed above, therefore I am not qualified for this position.


GRADE DETERMINATION -This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities to needed to qualify for a Health Technician (Audiology), GS-0640 position grades GS-05 through GS-07.


2.
for this position asked in question 1, you must also meet the grade level requirements listed below to qualify for this position at the GS-05 level.

Experience. One year of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. For example: answering and screening calls from patients, assisting with walk-in appointments, processing incoming devices from patients with concerns related to their hearing aids or hearing assistive technology, preparing and charging (if required) hearing aids and assistive devices for delivery.  OR

Education. Successful completion of four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with at least 24 semester hours in courses related to the position or a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to the functions of the occupation.
 Yes, I possess one year of experience as described above.
 Yes, I have successfully completed four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with at least 24 semester hours in a health care related field, or I possess a bachelor’s degree in the health care field appropriate to the functions of the occupation. (Transcripts Required)
 No, I do not meet the above requirements to qualify at the GS-05 level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition t meeting the experience or educational requirements for Grade 5 level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following KSAs at GS-05:
 
Knowledge of anatomy of the head and neck.
Ability to communicate clearly orally and in writing.
Knowledge of basic hearing assistive technologies.
Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.
Skill in using basic computer software such as email, spreadsheet and word processing.

Note:  Your resume must support your response to the above.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-06 Health Technician (Audiology) Grade Level Requirements: In addition to the basic requirements for this position asked in questions 1-8, you must also meet the grade level requirements listed below to qualify for this position at the GS-06 level.

Experience. Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled. For example: completing visual and auditory checks of hearing aids and hearing assistive technology, repairing or returning hearing aids to the factory, restoring hearing aid or hearing assistive technology settings after repair or replacement, ordering, registering, certifying, issuing and tracking prosthetic devices, setting up and delivering face to face and telehealth visits, providing clinical procedures consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care which may include non-diagnostic otoscopy, cerumen management, foreign body removal and ear mold impressions and without interpretation, immittance screening and hearing screening, educating patients, family and staff, completing documentation for each episode of care.
 Yes
 No


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-6:
 
Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
Knowledge of hearing physiology and function to educate patients and families.
Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aid, hearing assistive technology and patient care, consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
Ability to prepare patients for testing procedures.
Ability to document and code patient procedures.
Note:  Your resume must support your response to the above.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-07 Health Technician (Audiology) Grade Level Requirements:Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled. For example: knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy, knowledge of hearing physiology and function to educate patients and families, knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software, ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aid, hearing assistive technology and patient care, consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist, ability to prepare patients for testing procedures, and the ability to document and code patient procedures.
 Yes
 No


7.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.  In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-07

Ability to mentor and train new HTAs.
Ability to prepare patients for advanced testing procedures performed by the audiologist, such as evoked potentials.
Ability to develop and implement the technician role for a program in a focused area of audiology.

Note:  Your resume must support your response to the above.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙