Position Title
Physician Assistant
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-HQ-12995931-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


7.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
Camp Verde, AZ
Chinle, AZ
Cibecue, AZ
Kayenta, AZ
Maricopa, AZ
McNary, AZ
Parker, AZ
Peach Springs, AZ
Phoenix, AZ
Pinon, AZ
Polacca, AZ
Red Mesa, AZ
Sacaton, AZ
Supai, AZ
Whiteriver, AZ
Davis, CA
Havasu Lake, CA
Hemet, CA
Riverside, CA
Winterhaven, CA
Towaoc, CO
Fort Hall, ID
Mashpee, MA
Cass Lake, MN
Naytahwaush, MN
Ogema, MN
Ponemah, MN
Ponsford, MN
Red Lake, MN
Browning, MT
Crow Agency, MT
Harlem, MT
Hays, MT
Heart Butte, MT
Lame Deer, MT
Lodge Grass, MT
Poplar, MT
Pryor, MT
Wolf Point, MT
Winnebago, NE
Elko, NV
Moapa, NV
Wadsworth, NV
Acoma, NM
Albuquerque, NM
Bernalillo, NM
Bloomfield, NM
Cochiti Pueblo, NM
Cuba, NM
Dulce, NM
Espanola, NM
Gallup, NM
Mescalero, NM
San Felipe Pueblo, NM
San Fidel, NM
Santa Ana Pueblo, NM
Santa Fe, NM
Shiprock, NM
Taos, NM
Thoreau, NM
Tohatchi, NM
Zia Indian Reservation, NM
Zuni, NM
Lockport, NY
Manlius, NY
Cherokee, NC
Belcourt, ND
Cannon Ball, ND
Fort Yates, ND
Anadarko, OK
Carnegie, OK
Clinton, OK
El Reno, OK
Lawton, OK
Pawnee, OK
Watonga, OK
Wewoka, OK
Salem, OR
Warm Springs, OR
Rock Hill, SC
Bullhead, SD
Eagle Butte, SD
Fort Thompson, SD
Kyle, SD
Lower Brule, SD
Manderson, SD
Martin, SD
McLaughlin, SD
Mobridge, SD
Pine Ridge, SD
Rosebud, SD
Sisseton, SD
Wagner, SD
Wakpala, SD
Wanblee, SD
Fort Duchesne, UT
Aylett, VA
Charles City, VA
Indian Neck, VA
Madison Heights, VA
Providence Forge, VA
Richmond, VA
Suffolk, VA
Auburn, WA
Forks, WA
Nespelem, WA
Spokane, WA
Toppenish, WA
Wapato, WA
Wellpinit, WA
White Swan, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
From the list below, select the work schedule(s) you would like to be considered for employment.
 A. Full-Time (40 hours per week)
 B. Part-Time (less than 40 hours per week)
 C. Intermittent (on call/as needed basis)


4.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been arrested for or charged with certain crimes involving a child. Responding yes to this question can make you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere or guilty to certain crimes against persons or offenses committed against children. Responding yes to this question makes you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or guilty to, any felonious offense, or any two or more misdemeanor offenses under federal, state, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children?
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that (1) my responses to questions one and two are made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by fine under title 18 of the United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and (2) I have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted. I understand my right to obtain a copy of any criminal history report made available to the Indian Health Service and my right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Physician Assistant position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
SECTION I. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS AND FACTORS.


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENT - Education
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements for a physician assistant position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the education and certification requirements.
 I have graduated from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. In addition, I have successfully completed the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination. Note: Applicants must maintain status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for Continuing Medical Education (CME) and re-certification.
 I am currently a student and will meet the education requirements (as described in response A above) within the next 9 months.
 I do not have the education as described in the above statements.
 I have graduated from the IHS intramural PA training program in operation between 1971-1983. Graduates from the IHS program may also be known as Community Health Medics (CHM).


2.
Basic Requirements - Licensure
In order to qualify for this position, applicants must possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background which demonstrates how you meet the Licensure requirements.
 I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.
 I am a student and expect to be licensed within the next 9 months.
 I do not meet the licensure requirement listed above.


3.
Minimum Qualification, GS-09, Physician Assistant
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-09. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have completed a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-07 grade level and graduated from an accredited physician assistant educational program that is accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. The experience is related to the work of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples include: Ability to perform patient history and physical; Ability to formulate a plan and provide treatment to the patient; and ability to provide patient care that is abreast of changing concepts and advancements in the profession.
 I have completed the Master of Physician Assistant Studies.
 I have completed a master's degree in a related health care or health related science and completed an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related master's degree programs include, but are not limited, to Master of Medical Sciences, Master of Public Health, Master of Biomedical Sciences, or other related major field of study.
 I am in the process of completing a physician assistant training program (as described in response A or B above) and will graduate within the next 9 months.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


4.
Minimum Qualification, GS-11, Physician Assistant
From the description below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-11. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have completed a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-09 grade level, and completed an accredited physician assistant educational program that is accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. The experience is related to the work of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples of experience: Assessing patient health by interviewing patients and performing physical examinations; determining abnormal conditions by administering or ordering diagnostic tests, i.e., x-rays, electrocardiograms and laboratory tests; and documenting patient care services by charting in patient and department record.
 I have completed a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree in a related health field and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program. Examples of related doctoral degree programs include, but are not limited to, public health; allied health field; public health education; or other related health science programs.
 I have completed of Doctorate of Physician Assistant Studies, Doctorate of Science Physician Assistant (DScPA) or equivalent.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.
 I am in the process of completing a physician assistant training program (as described in A or B above) and will graduate within the next 9 months.


5.
Minimum Qualification, GS-12, Physician Assistant
From descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-12. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have completed a minimum of one full year of work experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and completion of an accredited physician assistant educational program is required. The experience is related to the work of the position as described in the vacancy announcement. Examples of experience: providing comprehensive preventive and therapeutic healthcare services to all age groups that includes assessment, diagnosis and treatment of various illnesses; formulating and implementing treatment plans; prescribing medications; ordering and interpreting diagnostic tests; educating and counseling patients; and collaborating with physicians concerning patient care and management.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described in the above statements.


SECTION II. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY
As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

Certification of Information Accuracy
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙