Position Title
Field Office - Claims Specialist
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12952638-DHA-26-FO Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


3.
If you selected Dallas, TX as a location, please select the Dallas location(s) in which you want to be considered.
 A. Dallas North
 B. Dallas (Oak Cliff)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glendale, AZ
 I. Phoenix, AZ
 J. Tucson, AZ
 K. Little Rock, AR
 L. Anaheim, CA
 M. Chatsworth, CA
 N. Chula Vista, CA
 O. Hemet, CA
 P. Lancaster, CA
 Q. Long Beach, CA
 R. Los Angeles, CA
 S. Mission Viejo, CA
 T. Sacramento, CA
 U. San Marcos, CA
 V. Santa Ana, CA
 W. Victorville, CA
 X. Baton Rouge, LA
 Y. Monroe, LA
 Z. Shreveport, LA
 AA. Las Vegas, NV
 AB. North Las Vegas, NV
 AC. Reno, NV
 AD. Albuquerque, NM
 AE. Oklahoma City, OK
 AF. Tulsa, OK
 AG. Dallas, TX
 B. Denton, TX
 C. Fort Worth, TX
 D. Grand Prairie, TX
 E. Houston, TX
 F. San Antonio, TX
 G. Temple, TX
 H. Waco, TX


2.
In you selected Dallas, TX as a location, please select the Dallas location(s) in which you wish to be considered.
 A. Dallas North
 B. Dallas (Oak Creek)


3.
In you selected Houston, TX as a location, please select the Houston location(s) in which you wish to be considered.
 A. Houston northwest
 B. Houston southwest


4.
In you selected Los Angeles, CA as a location, please select the Los Angeles location(s) in which you wish to be considered.
 A. Chatsworth
 B. Panorama City


5.
In you selected Phoenix, AZ as a location, please select the Phoenix location(s) in which you wish to be considered.
 A. Phoenix North
 B. Phoenix Downtown


6.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the statements below, please select the response that best describes your experience and/or education. Select only one answer.


1.
Your response to the question below will determine if you qualify for the position of Claims Specialist, GS-5. If you meet more than one choice, select the response that describes the highest level of experience/education that you possess. You must fully meet the description in the response to select it.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (120 earned semester or 180 earned quarter hours) or I possess a bachelor's degree. (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have completed education beyond the bachelor's degree, e.g., graduate study, master's degree, LL.B., J.D., LL.M., Ph.D. (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have at least one year of work experience that involved (1) assist individuals in establishing their entitlement to receive benefits (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) ; (2) adjudicate, authorize or reconsider claims; (3) explain benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) entitlements or requirements to the general public; (4) evaluate benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) program operations to assess the integrity and quality; or (5) interpret benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) program requirements to formulate policies, procedures or guidelines.
 I have least 3 years of work experience that demonstrates the ability to: 1) review problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions; 2) plan and organize work; and 3) communicate effectively orally and in writing. An example of qualifying experience include reviewing, explaining, applying or interpreting rules, regulation or policies.
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B" and less than the amount of experience described in "C," but I have a combination of the type of graduate education described in "B" and the type of experience described in "C." (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to combine education and experience.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have less than 4 years of post-high school education leading to a bachelor's degree and less than the experience described in "D," but I have a combination of education and the type of experience described in "D." (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to combine education and experience.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your response to the question below will determine if you qualify for the position of Claims Specialist, GS-7. If you meet more than one choice, select the response that describes the highest level of experience/education that you possess. You must fully meet the description in the response to select it.
 I have a bachelor's degree and superior academic achievement in any field. (Refer to the Substitution of Education for information on the Superior Academic Achievement provision.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have one full year of graduate level study, or possess a master's or higher degree, e.g., LL.B, J.D., LL.M., Ph.D, in any field. (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to determine 1 academic year of graduate level study.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-5 grade level or equivalent in the federal service that demonstrates the ability to (1) assist individuals in establishing their entitlement to receive benefits (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) ; (2) adjudicate, authorize or reconsider claims; (3) explain benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) entitlements or requirements to the general public; (4) evaluate benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) program operations to assess the integrity and quality; or (5) interpret benefit (e.g., retirement, disability, public aid, insurance, taxes, etc.) program requirements to formulate policies, procedures or guidelines.
 I have less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B" and less than the amount of experience described in "C," but I have a combination of the type of graduate education described in "B" and the type of experience described in "C." (Refer to the Substitution of Education in the vacancy announcement on how to combine education and experience.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your response to the question below will determine if you qualify for the position of Claims Specialist, GS-9.  If you meet more than one choice, select the response that describes the highest level of experience/education that you possess.  You must fully meet the description in the response to select it.  You may be required to provide proof for the response you select.
 I have 52 weeks of specialized experience performing the following tasks: assisting individuals in establishing their entitlement to receive benefits; adjudicating or investigating claims; or evaluating benefit programs to assess the integrity and quality of operations.
 I have two full years of graduate level study, or possess a master's or higher degree, e.g., LL.B, J.D., LL.M, Ph.D., in any field. (Refer to the Substitution of Education section in the vacancy announcement on how to determine two academic years of graduate level study.) (YOU MUST UPLOAD A COPY OF YOUR OFFICIAL OR UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS OR OTHER PROOF OF EDUCATION PRIOR TO THE ANNOUNCEMENT CLOSING.)
 I have a combination of A and B.
 My experience and/or education does not meet the descriptions in A, B, or C.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you acknowledge that this position is not a remote work position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙