Position Title
Archeologist
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-GVA-Q4-13052965-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 9 location(s).
 A. Duncan, AZ
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Bayfield, CO
 D. Carbondale, CO
 E. Eagle, CO
 F. Glenwood Springs, CO
 G. Meeker, CO
 H. Minturn, CO
 I. Rifle, CO
 J. Silverthorne, CO
 K. Springfield, CO
 L. Idaho Falls, ID
 M. Bedford, IN
 N. Tell City, IN
 O. Ashland, MT
 P. Billings, MT
 Q. Bozeman, MT
 R. Hood River, OR
 S. Columbia, SC
 T. Edgefield, SC
 U. Mountain Rest, SC
 V. Whitmire, SC
 W. Leavenworth, WA
 X. Wenatchee, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Archeologist, GS-0193-09/11 position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.


Basic Education Requirements: This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience needed to qualify for the GS-0193 series. Transcripts must be provided for qualifications based on education. Ensure you mark/highlight the qualifying courses on your transcript. Provide course descriptions as necessary.


1.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the basic requirements for this position. Please select only one response.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in a major field of study that included 3 semester hours in each of the following course areas: History of archeology; archeology of a major geographical area such as North America or Africa; regional archeology, archeological cultures, or sites in a specific part or portion of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development; theory and methods of archeology. Methods include, but are not limited to, typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, and analytical techniques; archeological field school; AND 6 semester hours of related course work in: geography, geology, or cultural geography; history, histography, or historical archeology; environmental studies; scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); and/or surveying; AND archeological field school.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in a related curriculum such as anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements in the previous statement (including archeological field school).
 I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in Archeology as described above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education described above but have four years of archeological work experience that demonstrated a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. The work experience must have included archeology field experience, which may include that gained in an archeological field school. Field experience should have included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher grade archeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief, directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archeological project.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


This section will be used to determine if you meet the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING


2.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the specialized experience requirements for the Archeologist, GS-0193-09 position. Please select only one response.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as two or more of the following: Assisting in conducting background studies and document reviews pertaining to archeological project development; and/or participating in archeological survey and site evaluation work and preparing technical reports; and/or conducting field reconnaissance in areas scheduled for land use activities such as vegetation management, habitat projects, infrastructure development, or recreational improvements to identify potential effects on archeological sites.
 I have successfully completed 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or have received a master's or equivalent graduate degree in archeology or directly related coursework.
 I have a combination of graduate level education (beyond 18 semester hours) and specialized experience that is directly related to archaeology that together meets the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


3.
From the statements below, select the one statement below that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Archeologist, GS-0193-11. Please select only one response.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as two or more of the following: Performing standard tasks or portions of larger projects of an archeological program, such as conducting performance studies and examining historical research documents pertaining to project development; and/or assisting professional archeologists in developing and maintaining archeological program components, including scientific reporting, records management, database updates, and monitoring the condition of cultural resource sites; and/or evaluating problems associated with archeological site protection and implementing corrective measures within the framework of archeological program and legal requirements.
 I don't possess the specialized experience listed above; however, I have 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that is directly related to archaeology.
 I have a combination of graduate education (beyond what is required for a master's degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading to a Ph.D.) and specialized experience that is directly related to archeology that together meets the qualifications requirements for this position.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


This section will be used to determine your qualification for placement in the quality group based on your experience. For each item below, in your own words, do not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Describe a specific instance from your training and/or experience. Your response must include:
The situation or assignment, i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved;
The specific actions you took;
The outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment;
Your position title at the time; and
Provide the name and contact information for someone who can verify each accomplishment.


4.
Describe a situation where you applied your knowledge of historical events, cultural development, or archeological preservation techniques to evaluate or protect a cultural resource. What steps did you take, and what was the final outcome of your efforts?



5.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



6.
Describe a situation where you organized and prioritized work for a heritage or cultural resource effort, such as planning a survey, coordinating with others, or evaluating project progress. What steps did you take to plan and carry out the work, and what was the outcome of your efforts?



7.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



8.
Describe a time when you produced a written product -such as a report, evaluation, or technical document, that needed to be clear, accurate, and well organized for a specific audience. What was the assignment, what actions did you take to ensure strong writing quality, and what was the final result?


9.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



10.
Describe a time when you had to convey complex, sensitive, or technical information verbally to an individual or group. What actions did you take to tailor your message, respond to questions, or ensure understanding, and what was the outcome of the interaction?



11.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



12.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, and degree.

 A. I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of college.
 B. I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 C. I am/(was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 D. I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g.,M.A. or Ph.D.).
 E. I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 F. None of the above.


13.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I certify I used my own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙