Position Title
Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12965385-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to May 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command Applying to OCONUS Positions

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command Applying to OCONUS Positions'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE FAMILY MEMBER APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who are currently assigned to an excepted service Schedule A family member position at an overseas location, and the position applying to is in the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station. If you are eligible in this category, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 a "3" AND block 34 reflecting a "2."

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command Applying to OCONUS Positions recruiting for this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Family Member Preference (FMP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a spouse, or unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, and foster child) under the age of 23 who:
Resides with a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or a U.S. citizen employee of a U.S. Government Agency (including non-appropriated fund activities) whose duty station is in the foreign area: AND,
Have not accepted or declined a permanent position or a temporary position of one year or longer at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station
**NOTE: This preference does not apply to family members of locally hired civilian employees.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting:
a copy of the sponsor's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse/family member to accompany the sponsor to the permanent duty station, the specific location to which the sponsor is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station, and
verification of the relationship (i.e., marriage certificate, certificate of live birth, etc.).

Are you eligible for Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment?
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouse Preference (MSP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are the spouse of an active duty U.S. Armed Forces service member and you meet the following conditions:
You and the sponsor were married prior to the relocation (before the Permanent Change of Station (PCS)); AND,
You have arrived at the overseas duty station identified on the PCS orders; AND,
Since the relocation, you have not accepted or declined a permanent position at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
You are among the best qualified; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station
**NOTE: Preference can be granted only once per PCS relocation. Once you accept or decline a position, either appropriated fund (AF) or non-appropriated fund (NAF) at the new duty station, your eligibility for preference terminates whether or not preference was applied.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of the service member's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse to accompany the member to the permanent duty station (if the spouse is not listed on the orders, then a command sponsorship letter must be submitted), the specific location to which the member is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station; AND verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

Are you eligible for Military Spouse Preference for Overseas Employment?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has been designated "Mission Essential". In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Are you willing and able to report to work or remain at work under adverse conditions to obtain and maintain this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25%of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


6.
Incumbent must maintain a functioning telephone to aid in contact during recall/emergency situations. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Public Affairs Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Advising on public affairs policy; 2) Recommending improvements on public outreach and/or engagement strategies; 3) Coordinating responses to highly visible stakeholder inquiries and 4) Prioritizing communication projects in support of organizational objectives.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has five response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. There are no right or wrong answers. Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are preparing a press release about a major infrastructure project completed by the Japan Engineer District (JED). The project has both technical and community impact aspects. You receive last-minute input from an engineer that includes highly technical language and data. The release is due to the media in two hours. What do you do?
 Submit the press release as originally drafted, noting the engineer's input for possible use in future technical publications.
 Remove the technical input entirely and submit the release without consulting the engineer or considering the technical aspects.
 Revise the press release to translate the technical input into clear, accessible language for the general public, ensuring both technical accuracy and public understanding, and submit it on time.
 Delay the release to allow more time for technical review and approval, even if it means missing the media deadline.
 Incorporate the technical input as provided, but add a brief summary in layman's terms at the beginning of the release before submitting it.


2.
A local news outlet publishes an article that misrepresents the scope of a JED project, causing public concern. You are asked to respond quickly. What is your best course of action?

 Issue a press release with correct information and invite the reporter to a site visit for further clarification.
 Contact the news outlet to provide accurate information, offer a clarifying statement for publication, and prepare a fact sheet for the public.
 Wait to see if the public concern escalates before taking any action.
 Ignore the article, assuming the public will eventually learn the correct information.
 Post a brief correction on the JED website and social media, but do not contact the news outlet directly.


3.
You are tasked with creating a video highlighting JED's recent achievements. Your team suggests using only internal staff interviews, but you know external stakeholders played a key role. What do you do?

 Approve the video as is, focusing solely on internal staff, to simplify production.
 Agree to focus on internal staff but add a segment acknowledging external contributions.
 Exclude all references to external stakeholders, as their involvement is not relevant to the video's purpose.
 Recommend including both internal staff and external stakeholders in the video to provide a comprehensive and balanced perspective.
 Proceed with only internal staff interviews, but mention external stakeholders in the video narration.


4.
A senior leader asks you to prepare a briefing for a visiting delegation. The leader wants to include several complex charts and technical details. The audience is mostly non-technical. How do you proceed?

 Ignore the leader's request and prepare a generic briefing with minimal detail.
 Present the leader's version as is, but offer to answer questions if the delegation seems confused.
 Prepare two versions of the briefing: one technical for the leader and one simplified for the delegation.
 Adapt the briefing to simplify technical content, use clear visuals, and provide explanations suitable for a non-technical audience, while consulting the leader for approval.
 Remove most technical content without consulting the leader, focusing only on general information.


5.
A member of your public affairs team is struggling to meet deadlines, affecting the team's output. Other team members are frustrated. What is your best response?

 Meet privately with the team member to identify challenges, provide support or training as needed, and communicate expectations to the team.
 Allow the situation to continue, hoping the team member will improve with time.
 Reassign some of the team member's tasks to others temporarily and monitor progress.
 Address the issue in a team meeting, asking the group for suggestions to improve workflow.
 Publicly criticize the team member for poor performance to set an example.


6.
You are leading a project with a tight deadline. Two team members disagree on the best approach and the conflict is delaying progress. What do you do?

 Ask each team member to submit their approach in writing and choose the one you prefer.
 Ignore the disagreement and proceed without addressing the conflict.
 Facilitate a discussion to understand both perspectives, guide the team to a consensus, and set clear next steps.
 Decide on the approach yourself and direct the team to follow it, explaining your reasoning.
 Allow the team members to resolve the conflict on their own, even if it delays the project.


7.
You notice that your team is not engaging with a new social media initiative you launched. What is your best course of action?

 Meet with the team to explain the importance of the initiative and set participation expectations.
 Solicit feedback from the team to understand barriers, adjust the initiative as needed, and encourage participation by highlighting its value.
 Assign specific social media tasks to each team member to ensure engagement.
 Continue the initiative as planned, assuming engagement will improve over time.
 Discontinue the initiative due to lack of initial interest.


8.
A subordinate approaches you with a suggestion to improve the district's public information program. The idea is innovative but would require significant changes to current processes. What do you do?

 Dismiss the idea, explaining that current processes are sufficient.
 Forward the suggestion to your supervisor without further discussion.
 Discourage the subordinate from making future suggestions to avoid disruption.
 Thank the subordinate and ask them to develop a detailed proposal for further review.
 Evaluate the suggestion with the team, considering feasibility and potential benefits, and pilot the idea if appropriate.


9.
A new policy from Head Quarters USACE (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) changes the approval process for public releases. Your team is used to the old process and is confused about the new requirements. What is your best response?
 Review the new policy, clarify the changes for your team, and provide updated guidance and training as needed.
 Summarize the key changes in an email and encourage the team to ask questions if they are unsure.
 Allow the team to continue using the old process until they become familiar with the new one.
 Ignore the new policy and instruct the team to follow existing procedures.
 Direct the team to read the new policy and implement it as best they can.


10.
You are asked to develop a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for handling media inquiries. What is your best approach?

 Allow each team member to handle media inquiries as they see fit, without a formal SOP.
 Consult relevant policies, gather input from your team and stakeholders, draft the SOP, and review it for compliance before implementation.
 Use an existing SOP from another district as a template and adapt it with minimal changes.
 Assign the task to a team member without providing guidance or oversight.
 Draft the SOP based on your experience and circulate it for feedback before finalizing.


11.
A field office requests guidance on managing a sensitive incident involving local media. There is no clear precedent in current policy. What do you do?

 Advise the field office to proceed cautiously and document all interactions, while you seek further guidance.
 Refer the field office to outdated guidance, acknowledging it may not fully apply.
 Consult with HQUSACE and legal counsel, develop interim guidance based on best practices, and communicate it to the field office.
 Suggest the field office handle the situation as they think best, offering to review their actions afterward.
 Instruct the field office to take no action until a formal policy is developed.


12.
You discover that your team has been inconsistently applying the district's social media policy, leading to confusion and potential risk. What is your best response?

 Send a written reminder about the policy, but take no further action.
 Suspend all social media activity until further notice.
 Ignore the inconsistencies, assuming they will resolve over time.
 Review the policy with the team, clarify expectations, and establish a process for consistent application and monitoring.
 Remind the team of the policy and ask them to review it before posting content.


13.
You are asked to deliver a briefing to a mixed audience of U.S. and Japanese officials. Some are not fluent in English. How do you ensure your message is understood?

 Deliver the briefing as you normally would, assuming the audience will ask questions if they are confused.
 Focus on delivering your message in English, but slow down your speech and use gestures to aid understanding.
 Provide written materials in both English and Japanese, and offer to answer questions after the briefing.
 Rely solely on technical jargon, expecting the audience to follow along.
 Use clear, simple language, speak at a moderate pace, incorporate visuals, and check for understanding throughout the briefing.


14.
During a public meeting, an audience member challenges the accuracy of your statements about a JED project. How do you respond?

 Acknowledge the concern, provide factual clarification, and offer to follow up with additional information if needed.
 Restate your points and provide supporting data to reinforce your statements.
 Respond defensively and question the audience member's credibility.
 Suggest discussing the issue privately after the meeting to avoid disruption.
 Dismiss the challenge and continue with your presentation.


15.
You are presenting a complex update to senior leadership. Midway through, you notice several leaders appear confused. What do you do?

 End the presentation early to avoid further confusion.
 Pause to clarify key points, invite questions, and adjust your presentation to address areas of confusion.
 Ignore the confusion and proceed as planned to stay on schedule.
 Continue the presentation but offer to answer questions at the end.
 Briefly summarize your main points before moving on.


16.
You are editing a draft article for the district newsletter. The article is informative but contains several grammatical errors and unclear sentences. What is your best response?

 Correct the most significant errors and return the article to the author for further revision.
 Publish the article with minimal changes to meet the deadline.
 Publish the article as is, but note the issues for future improvement.
 Reject the article without providing feedback to the author.
 Edit the article for grammar, clarity, and organization, ensuring it is suitable for the intended audience before publication.


17.
You are tasked with drafting a fact sheet for a new JED project. The project is complex and the fact sheet must be accessible to the general public. How do you proceed?

 Use technical language but include a glossary of terms for readers.
 Draft the fact sheet in plain language and have a colleague review it for clarity.
 Write the fact sheet in clear, concise language, organize information logically, and use visuals to aid understanding.
 Copy content from the project's technical report with minimal changes.
 Provide only basic project details, omitting context and explanation.


18.
You receive feedback that a recent publication was too lengthy and difficult to follow. What is your best response for future publications?

 Continue your current approach, as some readers may prefer detailed information.
 Ignore the feedback, assuming it was an isolated opinion.
 Summarize key points at the beginning of future publications to aid reader understanding.
 Revise your writing process to focus on brevity, clarity, and logical organization, and seek feedback before publication.
 Reduce the length of future publications, but keep the same level of detail.


19.
You are asked to prepare a written summary of a recent community engagement event for the district's website. The event included both positive and negative feedback from attendees. How do you approach the summary?

 Provide a balanced summary that highlights both positive outcomes and areas for improvement, using clear and objective language.
 Summarize only the main points discussed, without addressing feedback.
 Exclude all feedback and provide only logistical details about the event.
 Focus on the positive feedback but mention that some concerns were raised.
 Highlight only the positive aspects to present the event in the best light.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙