Position Title
Lead Emergency Services Dispatcher
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADSC-26-12828277-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 17, 2025 to Sunday, November 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Answering 911 calls; Working with emergency services dispatch equipment; Interpreting pertinent laws and regulations related to emergency calls and dispatching services; Monitoring multiple types of emergency equipment simultaneously; Documenting accurate information into appropriate databases.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions (A to E) listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


2.
A new dispatcher is handling a multi-agency emergency involving a fire with injuries and potential criminal activity. What is the most effective way to guide them in prioritizing tasks?

 Instruct them to dispatch all services simultaneously without delay.
 Emphasize dispatching fire services first, then medical, and finally police.
 Walk them through assessing the situation, identifying immediate threats, and dispatching accordingly.
 Let them decide the order to build confidence in their judgment.


3.
Which of the following best reflects proper documentation of an emergency call?

 Recording only the caller’s name and nature of the emergency.
 Logging time of call, units dispatched, actions taken, and outcomes.
 Summarizing the event in a few sentences after the call ends.
 Relying on memory to fill in details later if needed.


4.
A caller reports a vehicle accident with injuries and a small fire. What is the most appropriate dispatch response?

 Dispatch police only to manage the scene.
 Dispatch fire services only to handle the fire.
 Dispatch fire, medical, and police units simultaneously.
 Wait for more information before dispatching any units.


5.
A 911 caller is screaming and unable to clearly explain the emergency. What is the most effective first step?

 Hang up and call back to reset the conversation.
 Speak calmly and ask simple, direct questions to de-escalate.
 Immediately dispatch all emergency services without gathering details.
 Put the caller on hold and consult a supervisor.


6.
A caller reports that someone has collapsed and is not breathing. What is the correct telephonic instruction?

 Advise the caller to wait for paramedics.
 Instruct the caller to check for a pulse and begin chest compressions if absent.
 Tell the caller to move the person to a hospital immediately.
 Recommend calling a neighbor for help.


7.
While using the emergency services network system, a dispatcher receives a priority alert. What is the most appropriate action?

 Log the alert and wait for further instructions.
 Immediately notify the appropriate agency and document the response.
 Forward the alert to a supervisor without taking action.
 Ignore the alert if no caller is associated with it.


8.
A building alarm system indicates a fire in a commercial facility. What should the dispatcher do first?

 Dispatch fire services and notify building management.
 Wait for a second alarm to confirm the emergency.
 Call the building to verify before dispatching.
 Reset the alarm and monitor for further activity


9.
During a multi-agency response, what is the dispatcher's primary responsibility?

 Monitor all channels and relay updates between units.
 Focus only on police communications.
 Record all transmissions for later review.
 Wait for units to report back before taking action.


10.
A caller reports a medical emergency but is panicked and unclear. What should the dispatcher prioritize?

 Ask for the exact location and a callback number.
 Begin CPR instructions immediately.
 Dispatch medical services without confirming location.
 End the call and try calling back.


11.
A caller reports a suspicious person near a school. What is the most appropriate way to determine the correct response?

 Ask the caller to describe the person and their behavior.
 Immediately dispatch police without asking questions.
 Advise the caller to confront the person.
 Tell the caller to call the school directly.


12.
During a shift change, a dispatcher notices a teammate is overwhelmed. What is the best way to support them?

 Offer to help with tasks and notify the supervisor.
 Ignore the situation to avoid conflict.
 Criticize their performance to motivate improvement.
 Take over their duties without informing anyone.


13.
A caller is yelling and panicking about a car crash. What should the dispatcher do first?

 Speak calmly and reassure the caller while asking for location details.
 Raise their voice to match the caller’s urgency.
 Hang up and call back later.
 Dispatch units without gathering any information.


14.
During a large-scale emergency, what is the dispatcher's role in maintaining liaison with field units?

 Relay updates between agencies and ensure coordination.
 Focus only on one agency to simplify communication.
 Wait for field units to report back before acting.
 Record events for later review without engaging.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙