Position Title
Supervisory Physical Therapist
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HS-JT-26-13005792-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Physical Therapist position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of  Supervisory Physical Therapist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a graduate (or higher level) degree that included (1) a physical therapy curriculum approved by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or a professional accrediting organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained; and (2) completion of the clinical requirements prescribed by the school. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0633 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not possess the education described above


2.
The Supervisory Physical Therapist occupation requires a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physical Therapist from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and you must have passed the National Physical Therapy Examination administered by the Federation of State Boards of Physical Therapy (FSBPT). Do you possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physical Therapist from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States; and have you passed the National Physical Therapy Examination administered by the FSBPT? (Note: You must attach a copy of your license.)

 Yes
 I do not meet the basic requirement above. However, I am a current federal employee occupying a position in the 0633 occupational series and have been continuously employed in this occupational series since September 27, 2017 or before. (Note: You will be required to provide appropriate documentation to the respective Human Resources Office to validate your status.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Physical Therapist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes conducting physical therapy patient evaluations; providing education and consultation to patients; and developing physical therapy treatment plans.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙