Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12841381-26-LRC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 26, 2025 to Wednesday, December 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position located at the Louisville VA Medical Center. Human Resources will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


In accordance with Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) Bulletin, Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages dated September 25, 2025; Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists, 0647 (all specializations are included) are not subject to Veterans Preference. This will continue until September 30, 2026. Veterans Preference will not be collected for this public announcement.


Basic Requirements for the position of Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist GS-647. To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable.] Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent [can operate independently] and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. [In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.]

Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


3.
Please provide the following information regarding your ARRT certification(s):
Area of Certifiation:
Certiticaion #:
Date Certification received:
Expiration Date:



4.
Education: Completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).]

Do you meet the education requirement as described above?

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13,
 No


The following question is related to the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position GS-5 Grade Level grade requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-5 Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you possess the basis requirements for the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist GS-5 position?
 Yes
 No


The following question is related to the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position GS-6 Grade Level grade requirements.


6.
GS-6 Experience or Education: In addition to meeting all the basic requirements listed above you must have at least have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level;
OR
Successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
Knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
Knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
Ability to learn basic computer functions.

Do you have experience demonstrating possession of advanced practice skills and judgment as described in the paragraph above?
 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


The following question is related to the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position GS-7 Grade Level grade requirements.


7.
GS-7 Experience or Education: You must have one of the following:
At least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level;
OR
Successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging;
OR
Successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging. Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills.
Do you have experience demonstrating possession of advanced practice skills and judgment as described in the paragraph above?
 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


The following question is related to the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position GS-8 Grade Level grade requirements.


8.
GS-8 Experience: You must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.
Do you have experience demonstrating possession of advanced practice skills and judgment as described in the paragraph above?

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following for each job listed:1) Job title and grade level/salary. To show that you meet the experience requirements, you must document grades you have held and how long you have held them;2) Duties (you must include enough detailed information to support your specialized experience);3) Month, day and year start/end dates (e.g. 04/02/2007 to 04/13/2008);4) Hours worked per week for all jobs listed.5) Full Name and address of Employer6) Name of Supervisor or Contact name7) Complete phone number of Supervisor/Contact. TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER - You must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) or an appropriate course listing with your application. SF50 REMINDER - If you are a current federal employee, you must submit a copy of your current SF-50.


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Your resume MUST have your License Number(s) and state(s) that issued the license. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer's Name (2.) Employer's City and State (3.) Job title (Federal/Military jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙