Position Title
COOK
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
JRM-26-160 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Cook position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.



1.
Do you have experience preparing and cooking a variety of food items by following recipes, operating standard kitchen equipment, and applying knowledge of proper cooking times and temperatures?  (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Yes (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 No


2.
Choose the statement that best describes you work experience preparing and cooking a variety of food items by following standardized recipes, operating standard kitchen equipment, and applying knowledge of proper cooking times and temperatures. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has over 5 years of full time work experience as described above (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 3 to 5 years of full time work experience as described above (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 1 to 3 years of full time work experience as described above (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me.


3.
Are you able to perform basic arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication) to adjust recipe quantities?
 Yes, I can independently and accurately adjust recipes to increase or decrease the number of servings.
 Yes, but I sometimes require assistance to verify my calculations.
 No, I am not able to perform these calculations.


4.
Choose the statement that best describes your knowledge of food safety and sanitation principles. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I have experience monitoring and maintaining proper food temperatures (for holding and storing), preventing cross-contamination, and ensuring the kitchen and equipment are kept clean and sanitary in accordance with established procedures. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I have experience following basic sanitation procedures, such as washing hands, cleaning food preparation surfaces, and properly storing food. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I have a basic understanding of food safety but limited practical experience applying it in a professional kitchen. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙