Position Title
Supervisory Administrative Officer
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-MP-26-13051292 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
I am currently employed as a permanent, career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service, HOWEVER, I have not held the full performance level of this position.
Note: Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1")
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you wish to be considered under a CTAP (Career Transition Assistance Plan) eligibility? You may qualify for CTAP eligibility if all of the statements apply to you:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy.
You have been (or will be) involuntarily separated from the agency advertising this position, due to a reduction-in-force.
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position separated from.
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position separated from.
Your last performance rating of record is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
For more information about CTAP, please see the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility for CTAP:
You must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must also submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing position, tenure code, grade & step, and full name/DOB/SSN.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am a current or former, permanent, Federal employee in the competitive service WITH the SAME or HIGHER full performance level of this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the competitive service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the competitive service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former competitive service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This position is open to current Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employees serving on a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the Competitive service. You may verify this eligibility by reviewing your most recent SF-50 block 24 (must be "1" or "2") and block 34 (must be "1"). HHS employees eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Program, and HHS Reemployment Priority List eligibles may also apply.


1.
Select the one response that best describes your eligibility. You must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 and any other documentation required to support your eligibility which may include additional SF-50s.
 I am a current HHS employee on a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the Competitive service.
 I am a current HHS employee eligible to apply under the Career Transition Assistance Program.
 I am a current or former HHS employee applying based on Reemployment Priority List eligibility.
 I do not meet any of the eligibilities above.


Select only one response for each of the following questions. Any experience claimed in response to the following questions MUST be supported by information in your resume. This information must be SPECIFIC (i.e., duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for the Supervisory Administrative Officer, GS-0341-14 position. Your resume must support your response.

 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized work experience equivalent in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate experience: (1) Providing recommendations regarding recruitment strategies, workforce restructuring, workforce performance, or succession planning initiatives; (2) Participating in organizational assessments designed to identify workforce capability gaps and emerging staffing needs; (3) Advising supervisors and managers on performance standards, performance documentation, performance metrics, and employee accountability; and (4)Coordinating recruitment and staffing activities with servicing HR office.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience to qualify for this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙