Position Title
Machine Tool Work Inspector
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-12973151-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
10
11


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Machine Tool Work Inspector position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Machine Tool Work Inspector duties without more than normal supervision at the WG 10 level.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Machine Tool Work Inspector duties. I am skilled in: (1) Performing dimensional inspections on manufactured components or assemblies; (2) Reading and interpreting shop drawings; (3) Utilizing standard measuring equipment, such as: micrometers, and calipers or other measuring tools; (4) Processing of metals, metal alloys and/or fabrics; and (5) Communicating any work problems to supervisor. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Machine Tool Work Inspector duties. I am skilled in : (1) Performing dimensional inspections on manufactured components or assemblies; (2) Reading and interpreting shop drawings; (3) Utilizing standard measuring equipment, such as: micrometers, and calipers or other measuring tools; and (4) Processing of metals, metal alloys and/or fabrics. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Machine Tool Work Inspector duties. I can: (1) Perform dimensional inspections on manufactured components or assemblies; (2) Read and interpret shop drawings; and (3) Utilize standard measuring equipment, such as: micrometers, and calipers or other measuring tools. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Machine Tool Work Inspector duties or I have received training on Machine Tool Work Inspection.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Machine Tool Work Inspector duties without more than normal supervision at the WG-11 grade level.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Machine Tool Work Inspector duties. I am skilled in: (1) Performing in-process and final inspections on manufactured components or assemblies; (2) Reading and interpreting shop drawings; (3) Utilizing standard measuring equipment, such as: micrometers, and calipers or other measuring tools; (4) Applying shop math to ensure accuracy; (5) Maintaining monthly reports for management; and (6) Communicating any problems that impede the production to management. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Machine Tool Work Inspector duties. I am skilled in: (1) Performing in-process and final inspections on manufactured components or assemblies; (2) Reading and interpreting shop drawings; (3) Utilizing standard measuring equipment, such as: micrometers, and calipers or other measuring tools; (4) Applying shop math to ensure accuracy; and (5) Maintaining monthly reports for management. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Machine Tool Work Inspector duties. I can: (1) Perform in-process and final inspections on manufactured components or assemblies; (2) Read and interpret shop drawings; and (3) Utilize standard measuring equipment, such as: micrometers, and calipers or other measuring tools; and (4) Apply shop math to ensure accuracy. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Machine Tool Work Inspector duties such as: utilizing electronic measuring, and standard measuring & testing equipment
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙