Position Title
Administrative Services Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-DC-13048264-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION.
The following questions address if you are eligible to apply to this job opportunity announcement through Merit Promotion procedures. You will only be considered under the options you have selected. You may qualify for more than one eligibility, so please choose carefully.
If you respond that you do not meet any of the following criteria, you will not be considered for this position under this announcement.
Please refer to the announcement for additional information. If you still have questions concerning your eligibility for consideration, you may reach out to the contact in the announcement prior to the announcement closing. You must submit a complete application by the close of the announcement to be considered.


1.
Are you currently employed with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


2.
You may qualify for this eligibility if you are a current U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia Federal civilian employee, and all of the following statements apply to you:
You currently hold (or previously held), a career or career-conditional appointment.
Your appointment was in the competitive service.
Your position was at the same (or higher) grade level, with the same (or higher) promotion potential, as the position being announced.
To verify your eligibility as a U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your status. Your SF-50 (or other document) must reflect:
career or career-conditional appointment type (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
Additional required documentation is outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


3.
This is not a remote position, you will be required to report to the duty location.
 I understand, I am willing to report to the duty location.
 I am not willing to report to the duty location.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your responses to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration


For the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may only select one response for each question. If you feel that your education and/or experience exceeds the description for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the education and/or experience that you possess.



1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes your experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an Administrative Support Specialist GS-0301-09, and that meets the minimum qualification requirement for this position.
 I have one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing (3) of the (4) following duties: (1) analyzing administrative support operations and recommending procedural improvements; (2) assisting with facilities maintenance, space planning, telecommunications, and building access; (3)maintaining accountable property, key, parking, and safety records; and/or (4) supporting employee transit benefits, mail, courier, and related administrative service programs.
 I have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree; OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL. B or J.D., in a related field (e.g., Public Administration, Operations Management, Organizational Management or Leadership, Logistics or Supply Chain Management). My education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. To compute the percentage of education, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes your experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an Administrative Support Specialist GS-0301-11, and that meets the minimum qualification requirement for this position.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) performing (3) of the (4) following duties: (1) coordinating and evaluating administrative support programs; (2) analyzing operations and recommending improvements; (3) managing facilities, space, telecommunications, access, property, parking, safety, transit, or mail services; and/or (4) preparing reports and procedures to ensure efficient and effective program operations.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree.; OR a LL.M., in a related field (e.g., Public Administration, Operations Management, Organizational Management or Leadership, Logistics or Supply Chain Management). My education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To calculate your percentage of qualifying experience, divide your total number of months of qualifying experience by 12. To compute the percentage of education, first determine the total number of hours that exceed 36 semester hours. Then divide the total number of your excess semester hours by 18. Add the percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Only graduate education more than two full years may be used in this calculation.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙