Position Title
SUPERVISORY GENERAL ENGINEER/DATA SCIENTIST/OPS RESEARCH ANALYST- DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-080104-12856058-CL Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1515 - Operations Research
 C. 1560 - Data Science Series


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience needed to qualify for a GENERAL ENGINEER NH-801-04, OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST, NH-1515-04
 and OPS RESEARCH ANALYST, NH-1560-04. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience for NH-801-04. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I meet the basic requirements for a NH-801-04 and I have quality level of experience which demonstrates the possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for successful job performance required for this position. Examples of creditable experience include: Utilizing scientific inquiry in the development of models/simulations and/or computer programs to evaluate and predict the ability to support assigned projects, studies or problems; applying professional knowledge of the concepts, principles, theories, and practices involved in engineering, mathematics, and/or computer science to perform studies, modify standard practices, and/or resolve issues related to the planning, development, fielding, and sustainment of complex electrical systems; and applying analytical and evaluative techniques to identify, investigate, and resolve complex issues or problems.
 I do not possess the education/experience as listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience for NH-1560-04. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I meet the basic requirements for a NH-1560-04and I have quality level of experience which demonstrates the possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for successful job performance required for this position. Examples of creditable experience include: Utilizing scientific inquiry in the development of models/simulations and/or computer programs to evaluate and predict the ability to support assigned projects, studies or problems; applying professional knowledge of the concepts, principles, theories, and practices involved in engineering, mathematics, and/or computer science to perform studies, modify standard practices, and/or resolve issues related to the planning, development, fielding, and sustainment of complex electrical systems; and applying analytical and evaluative techniques to identify, investigate, and resolve complex issues or problems.
 I do not possess the education/experience as listed above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience for NH-1515-04. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I meet the basic requirements for a NH-1515-04 and I have quality level of experience which demonstrates the possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for successful job performance required for this position. Examples of creditable experience include: Utilizing scientific inquiry in the development of models/simulations and/or computer programs to evaluate and predict the ability to support assigned projects, studies or problems; applying professional knowledge of the concepts, principles, theories, and practices involved in engineering, mathematics, and/or computer science to perform studies, modify standard practices, and/or resolve issues related to the planning, development, fielding, and sustainment of complex electrical systems; and applying analytical and evaluative techniques to identify, investigate, and resolve complex issues or problems.
 I do not possess the education/experience as listed above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item.


4.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙