Position Title
Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12841571-26-MLY Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Friday, December 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a career with the VA. The following questions will determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for the Recreation Therapist position.

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education. Do you have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university that fulfills the following criteria:

(a) A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. The degree must be approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC)
OR
(b) A bachelor's degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university and must be a certified therapeutic recreation specialist (CTRS). The degree must be approved by the NCTRC. If hired under this education, the certification cannot be waived.

Do you meet the above criteria?

PLEASE NOTE: A COPY OF YOUR TRANSCRIPTS WITH CONFER DATE IS REQUIRED WITH YOUR APPLICATION PACKAGE.
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification. All applicants must be certified in recreation therapy as a CTRS by the NCTRC. If hired under 2(b) above, certification cannot be waived.

Exception. Non-certified applicants, who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate recreation therapist, under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B), for a period not to exceed two years. Applicants who fail to obtain certification during this temporary full-time appointment may be terminated. The exception only applies to positions at the GS-7 and GS-9 level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level, the candidate must be registered and/or certified.

Are you certified as a CTRS by the NCTRC or agree to the exception for GS-7 and GS-9?

PLEASE NOTE: IF CERTIFIED, YOU MUST PROVIDE A CURRENT COPY OF YOUR CERTIFICATION WITH YOUR APPLICATION PACKAGE.
 Yes
 No


Grade Requirements:
GS-7 (Entry Level). None beyond the basic requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-9 (Developmental Level).
Experience and education. Do you have at least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7)?
OR
Do you have a master's degree in recreation therapy?
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(i) Knowledge of assessment tools and treatment for the diagnosis or disability of the patient.
(ii) Knowledge to interpret and apply all health and safety regulations, to minimize and mitigate risks in the provisions of patient care, and environmental maintenance.
(iii) Ability to effectively communicate and educate patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the treatment process.
(iv) Knowledge to apply evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.

Do you have the experience or education as listed above and can you fully demonstrate all the above KSA's?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11 (Full Performance Level).
Experience. Do you have at least 1 year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level (GS-9)?
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(i) Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment interventions to address the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in-depth specific assessment of function and utilization of unconventional methods and techniques.
(ii) Knowledge to independently interpret provider referrals and consults; and apply all health and safety regulations to minimize and mitigate risks in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
(iii) Skill in effectively communicating and educating, in a clear and concise manner, with patients, families, caregivers, and other health care professionals to facilitate the interdisciplinary treatment process.
(iv) Skill in independently utilizing appropriate screening and evaluation techniques required to appropriately provide direct patient care in areas such as, but not limited to recommendations for recreation therapy assistive devices, including fit and function.
(v) Skill in independently applying evidence-based and best practice therapeutic techniques and interventions.
(vi) Knowledge of the principles and techniques in recreation therapy assessment and the treatment of recreation, leisure, and biopsychosocial functional deficits.

Do you have the experience as listed above and can you fully demonstrate all the above KSA's?
 Yes
 No


Driver's License Requirement. Incidental operators are employees, other than those occupying a position officially classified as a motor vehicle operator, who are required to operate a government-owned/-leased motor vehicle to properly carry out their assigned duties. This position requires operation of a government-owned or leased motor vehicle to carry out assigned duties. Please respond honestly and provide the requested information.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Driver's License Requirement. A current, valid, state issued Driver's License is required for this position.

NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore, please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 Yes
 No


7.
Driver's License. Please provide your:
- Driver's license number
- Issuing state
- Expiration date

Reminder: DO NOT include a copy of your license, if referred for an interview, it may be required at that time.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
-Job title
-Month & Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2016 to April 2018)
-Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
-Duties (be as detailed as possible)
-Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙