Position Title
Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist (Dosimetrist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12935806-26-DG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Failure to respond to these questions may result in an ineligible rating. Please choose yes or no for the following questions.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Be a citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens according to 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: Medical Dosimetrists must be proficient in spoken and written English. See 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education: Effective January 1, 2017, candidates are required to hold a minimum of a bachelor's degree and graduate from a medical dosimetry program of at least 12 months in duration. The medical dosimetry program must be accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT), or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. JRCERT is the accrediting agency for the medical dosimetry programs recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Exception: Candidates who graduated prior to January 1, 2017, are considered to have met the basic education requirement provided they meet all Medical Dosimetrist Certification Board (MDCB) requirements and are in good standing.
Do you meet the education or exception as described above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in medical dosimetry by the MDCB. Certified Medical Dosimetry (CMD) is the recognized credential for Medical Dosimetrists.

NOTE: CMDs who perform therapeutic radiologic technologist duties must also possess ARRT(T) certification and be assigned to a functional statement that combines both types of work.

NOTE: The Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981, P.L. 97-35 requires persons who administer Therapeutic Radiological procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. ? 75. They must have completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and be accredited by an organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education or be a Radiation Therapist certified in medical dosimetry.

Do you meet all of the certification requirements listed above?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.

Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Medical Dosimetrist, GS-12 

Experience: At this level, candidates must possess at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the core competencies described at that level.

Do you have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to GS-11 (full performance level) that demonstrates the core competencies at that level?
 Yes
 No


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following technical KSAs:
Knowledge of the care and use of radioactive resources for implementation and treatment delivery.
 Skill at effective communication and leadership as demonstrated by providing orientation and training for staff, providing input for yearly appraisals, directing progress and coordination of workload, and ensuring compliance with standard operating procedures and directives to provide continuity of care.
Skill in providing guidance and expertise related to all aspects of the treatment planning process.
Skill to independently perform complex treatment procedures as evidenced by completing tasks such as developing and troubleshooting highly complex isodose treatment plans delineating critical structures and tumor volumes, performing weekly chart checks, performing QA verifications and providing training on all aspects of the Record and Verify System such as Mosaiq or Aria.
 Ability to resolve complex physical and geometric errors in radiation equipment, simulation procedures and treatment delivery implementation.
Ability to follow protocols including, but not limited to developing and implementing policies and standard operating procedures, participating in research programs, ensuring compliance with the radiation safety office, national program office, and accrediting agencies, and following established quality standard measures.
Ability to apply a broad range of specific methods of radiation measurements including, but not limited to, diode, ion chamber, thermoluminescent dosimeter, or film measurement as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist and perform or assist with the QA procedures as directed by a qualified Medical Physicist.
Can you fully demonstrate all the above KSAs?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙