Position Title
FIRE CHIEF
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12901988-AF-26-403 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 10, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I NB)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II NB)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1 year of experience that is equivalent to the next lower grade level and at least 36 months of experience, education, or training in one or more of the following areas:
(1) Controlling or extinguishing fires as a member of an organized military, industrial, volunteer, or governmental fire department or brigade.
(2) Rescue operations.
(3) Detection, reduction, or elimination of potential fire hazards.
(4) Operation of fire communications equipment.
(5) Controlling hazardous materials incidents.
(6) Developing, implementing, or providing training in fire protection and prevention
(7) Firefighting and fire prevention theory and techniques;
(8) Fixed and mobile firefighting equipment operation.
(9) Planning, directing, or carrying out fire protection and prevention programs and operations and/or
(10) Performing emergency medical services.
Must also have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

*(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)*
 Yes
 No


3.
CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT:
Must be certified by the DoD Fire Fighter Certification system as Fire Officer IV.
(includes Fire Officer I, II, III), Fire Instructor II (includes Fire Instructor I), Fire Inspector II (includes Fire
Inspector I), HAZMAT Incident Commander (includes Hazmat Awareness, Hazmat Operations), and
Airport Firefighter (includes Firefighter I, II)

Do you have the required Fire Officer IV certification?

*(Certifications must be submitted with application to be considered for this position)*
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E7 - E8)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙