Position Title
Veterinary Medical Officer
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-OD-DH-26-13016704 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


3.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


4.
HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or Priority Reemployment List (PRL) Eligible

Are you a former Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employee eligible for priority reemployment consideration under the HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) due to Reduction in Force (RIF) or due to fully recovering from a compensable work-related injury after more than one year?
You may be eligible for priority consideration if you are actively registered on the HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) for the same local commuting area, occupational job series, and grade level(s) as this vacancy announcement.

If you meet these criteria, the following supporting documentation must be submitted to support your claim:
copy of your last performance rating of record (if separated due to RIF);
SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that shows the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were separated. If you did not reach your full performance level or promotion potential, you should also submit an additional SF-50 that documents that grade level. To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information; and,
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease (if eligible due to recovery from compensable work-related injury).
Based on the above, are you eligible for RPL/PRL? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Institutes of Health. Carefully read each question and all response options before selecting your answer. Some questions may be used to determine basic eligibility; responses may result in disqualification.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes your education or experience as related to the occupational requirements for a Veterinary Medical Officer GS-0701 position:

 I qualify for this position because I have successfully completed the requirements for a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) or equivalent degree, i.e., Veterinary Medical Doctor (VMD), obtained at a school or college of veterinary medicine accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA). The AVMA web site, http://www.avma.org (external link), has a listing of all AVMA-accredited veterinary medical schools.
 I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical school that is not accredited by the AVMA Council on Education (Refer to AVMA web site, www.avma.org for information about schools in this category) AND I have been certified by the Commission must meet one of the following requirements Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG) AND I have passed Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the Test of Spoken English (TSE) and the Test of Written English (TWE) OR I have passed the International English Language Test System (IELTS) or the Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL).
 I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical school that is not accredited by the AVMA Council of Education AND I have a permanent, full, and unrestricted license to practice veterinary medicine in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States that includes successful completion of the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE) or its predecessors, the National Board of Examination (NBE) and the Clinical Competency Test (CCT) AND I have passed the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the Test of Spoken English (TSE) and the Test of Written English (TWE) OR I have passed the International English Language Test System (IELTS) or the Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL).
 I am a graduate of a foreign veterinary medical school that is not accredited by the AVMA Council of Education AND I have proof that my education is equivalent to that gained in a veterinary medical school that is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education. This equivalency is established by an AVMA-accredited veterinary medical school or college that has accepted my final transcript at the full value for placement into an advanced degree, postgraduate educational program (e.g. residency or graduate program) AND I have passed the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the Test of Spoken English (TSE) and the Test of Written English (TWE) OR I have passed the International English Language Test System (IELTS) or the Canadian Academic English Language Assessment (CAEL).
 My education does not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the additional requirement of a Veterinary Medical Officer, GS-0701-14 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify for this position at the GS-14 level because I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal Government obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: administering and evaluating laboratory animal welfare compliance programs by interpreting and applying the Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, the Animal Welfare Act, the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, and related regulations to ensure institutional compliance; providing expert veterinary consultation and technical guidance to research institutions, Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs), investigators, and senior officials; developing and delivering policy guidance, educational resources, and outreach activities related to laboratory animal welfare.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will remove you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, I may be removed from further consideration or future employment.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙