Position Title
Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12921104-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


10.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


11.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Incumbent must be deployable on TDY assignments to any area in the USACE impacted by a natural disaster or national security emergency. Deployment normally last 30-days real time but may be extended based on the specific situation
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Emergency Management Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes at least 2 out of the 3 following duties: providing advisory, policy support, and planning for implementation of programs related to Civil emergencies, mobilization support, military contingencies, and homeland security; providing interagency response to national emergency situations; coordinating emergency situations; coordination emergency operations center responsibilities ; and determining requirements for emergency operations training for natural, technological , and man-made disaster.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2

INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.

There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are leading your emergency management team during a Category 2 hurricane approaching your district's coastal areas. Multiple levee systems are showing stress indicators, and local authorities are requesting immediate support for evacuation operations. Your team includes engineers, logistics specialists, and field coordinators who must be deployed across three critical zones simultaneously. How do you proceed?

 Deploy teams to all three zones immediately based on geographic proximity to minimize travel time, establish radio communication, and plan to rotate personnel every 12 hours to prevent fatigue during extended operations.
 Conduct a rapid assessment of all three zones, prioritize based on population density and infrastructure vulnerability, deploy your most experienced personnel to the highest-risk area while establishing communication protocols between all teams, and maintain a mobile reserve for emerging threats.
 Focus your primary resources on the zone with the most critical levee indicators, assign skeleton crews to monitor the other areas, and request additional personnel from neighboring districts to provide adequate coverage for all locations.
 Concentrate all resources on the zone closest to your headquarters to ensure maximum oversight and control, while monitoring the other areas remotely through automated systems and local emergency responders until additional support arrives.
 Divide your team equally among the three zones, assign team leaders for each area based on their expertise, establish hourly check-in procedures, and coordinate directly with local emergency management officials to ensure unified command structure.


2.
Your district's emergency management information systems are experiencing intermittent failures during a flood response operation. Critical hydrologic data is not updating properly, and field teams are reporting inconsistent information in their damage assessment reports. The IT support team is overwhelmed with multiple system issues. As the subject matter expert, what is your approach?

 Switch to manual data collection methods for all operations, document all system issues for post-incident analysis, maintain communication with field teams through alternative channels, and focus on restoring the most essential systems first.
 Shut down all automated systems to prevent data corruption, rely entirely on manual processes and radio communication, and wait for complete system restoration before resuming normal data management operations.
 Immediately implement backup data collection procedures, establish manual reporting protocols for critical information, coordinate with IT to prioritize system repairs based on operational impact, and brief all teams on temporary procedures while maintaining data integrity standards.
 Continue using the existing systems while documenting all data inconsistencies, assign additional personnel to verify information manually, and schedule system repairs for after the emergency response concludes to avoid further disruptions.
 Work directly with IT to identify the root cause of system failures, establish priority repair schedules for the most critical systems, implement temporary workarounds for data collection, and ensure all personnel are trained on backup procedures.


3.
You discover that your district's emergency response teams have not conducted a full-scale flood response exercise in 18 months, and several new team members have never participated in a multi-agency drill. A major spring flood season is approaching in 6 weeks. How do you address this preparedness gap?

 Postpone comprehensive training until after flood season to avoid disrupting current operations, provide new personnel with written procedures and manuals, and focus on maintaining existing equipment and supplies.
 Schedule immediate tabletop exercises to review procedures and protocols, conduct equipment checks and inventory updates, arrange for new personnel to shadow experienced team members during routine operations, and plan a full exercise for after flood season.
 Organize an intensive two-week training program combining classroom instruction with hands-on exercises, invite partner agencies to participate in joint scenarios, assign experienced team members as mentors for new personnel, and document all training outcomes.
 Provide accelerated briefings on emergency procedures to all personnel, conduct equipment familiarization sessions, review previous exercise reports with new team members, and rely on on-the-job training during actual emergency responses.
 Design a progressive training schedule that includes tabletop exercises, functional drills, and a scaled full-exercise, coordinate with partner agencies for realistic scenarios, integrate new personnel through mentorship programs, and conduct after-action reviews to identify improvement areas.


4.
During a strategic planning session with senior leadership and higher headquarters, you identify a significant gap in your district's capability to respond to simultaneous multiple emergencies. The discussion reveals conflicting priorities between immediate operational needs and long-term capability development, with budget constraints limiting options. How do you contribute to resolving this issue?

 Develop a detailed cost-benefit analysis of various capability enhancement options, recommend prioritizing the most critical gaps first, suggest exploring federal grant opportunities and partnerships, and propose a timeline that aligns with budget cycles.
 Focus the discussion on the most visible capability gaps that affect public perception, recommend quick fixes that can be implemented with minimal cost, and suggest deferring comprehensive planning until more resources become available.
 Recommend maintaining current capabilities rather than expanding, suggest that simultaneous multiple emergencies are unlikely scenarios, and propose focusing resources on improving response time for single-incident operations.
 Present a comprehensive analysis of capability gaps with risk assessments, propose a phased implementation plan that balances immediate needs with long-term goals, identify potential partnerships and resource-sharing opportunities, and recommend performance metrics to track progress.
 Advocate for addressing the most pressing immediate operational needs first, present options for temporary solutions using existing resources, and recommend developing a long-term plan once current capability gaps are addressed.


5.
While reviewing regional emergency response plans, you discover that your district's flood response procedures conflict with neighboring districts' protocols for shared waterway management. These conflicts could lead to contradictory actions during a multi-district flood event. The regional coordination meeting is scheduled for next week. What is your approach?

 Document all procedural differences between districts, focus on conflicts that have caused problems in past emergencies, propose that each district maintain its current procedures while improving communication during joint operations.
 Map out all areas of conflict between district procedures, research best practices from other regions facing similar challenges, develop proposed revisions that address the most critical conflicts, and prepare recommendations for standardizing key coordination protocols.
 Conduct a detailed analysis of all conflicting procedures, develop alternative approaches that satisfy all districts' operational requirements, prepare compromise solutions with clear decision-making hierarchies, and present options that maintain each district's core capabilities while ensuring regional coordination.
 Recommend that each district continue using its existing procedures since they have worked effectively in the past, suggest that conflicts can be resolved through better communication during actual emergencies rather than changing established protocols.
 Identify the most significant procedural conflicts that could impact emergency response effectiveness, propose temporary coordination protocols for immediate use, and recommend establishing a working group to address remaining conflicts over time.


6.
Your district needs to update its operational guidance for emergency protection efforts following recent changes in federal regulations and lessons learned from last year's hurricane response. The current guidance is outdated and doesn't address new technologies or revised interagency coordination requirements. How do you proceed?

 Update the guidance to address the most critical regulatory changes and coordination requirements, focus on areas that showed deficiencies in recent responses, and implement changes in phases to allow for testing and refinement.
 Conduct a comprehensive review of current guidance against new regulations and best practices, engage stakeholders from all relevant departments and partner agencies, develop updated procedures that incorporate new technologies and coordination requirements, and establish a regular review cycle for future updates.
 Continue using existing guidance since it has proven effective in past emergencies, supplement with separate memos addressing new regulatory requirements, and avoid major changes that could confuse personnel during emergency operations.
 Make minimal changes to address only the mandatory regulatory requirements, maintain most existing procedures to avoid disrupting established operations, and plan to address other improvements during the next major revision cycle.
 Form a working group with representatives from operations, engineering, and coordination functions, review recent emergency responses to identify improvement areas, draft updated guidance incorporating regulatory changes, and conduct validation exercises before implementation.


7.
You need to design an exercise program to test your district's compliance with updated Emergency Management plans. The exercise must evaluate multiple functional areas including communications, logistics, damage assessment, and interagency coordination. You have limited time and resources, and some key personnel will be unavailable during the proposed exercise dates. How do you design an effective exercise program?

 Postpone the exercise until all key personnel are available and more resources can be allocated, conduct only tabletop discussions in the interim, and focus on reviewing procedures rather than testing actual response capabilities.
 Conduct separate smaller exercises for each functional area to accommodate personnel availability, use simplified scenarios that require minimal preparation time, and focus on basic compliance rather than comprehensive readiness testing.
 Focus the exercise on the most critical functional areas that showed deficiencies in previous assessments, design scenarios that can be conducted with available personnel, and plan follow-up training sessions to address areas not covered in the main exercise.
 Develop a comprehensive exercise scenario that tests all functional areas simultaneously, create detailed evaluation checklists based on Emergency Management plan requirements, schedule the exercise during optimal timing for maximum participation, and plan makeup sessions for unavailable personnel.
 Design a multi-phase exercise program that includes tabletop discussions, functional exercises, and a culminating full-scale exercise, develop scenarios that test all required functional areas, create evaluation criteria based on plan requirements, and schedule exercises to maximize participation while including contingencies for key personnel absences.


8.
During an active flood response, you need to direct multiple organizations within your district to execute critical missions simultaneously. The engineering division must assess levee integrity, the operations center must coordinate with local authorities, and the logistics section must deploy emergency supplies. Each organization is reporting resource constraints and competing priorities. How do you direct these efforts?

 Define specific mission assignments for each organization based on their core capabilities, establish reporting timelines and coordination requirements, prioritize tasks that support overall response objectives, and monitor progress to ensure mission execution stays on track.
 Establish clear mission priorities based on life safety and infrastructure protection, allocate resources according to risk assessment and operational impact, implement coordination protocols that ensure information sharing between organizations, and maintain flexibility to reallocate resources as conditions change.
 Direct all organizations to focus on their routine capabilities rather than stretching into unfamiliar areas, maintain traditional organizational boundaries to avoid confusion, and prioritize tasks that can be completed quickly to show immediate progress.
 Focus each organization on their primary mission area while establishing liaison personnel to coordinate between groups, prioritize the most urgent tasks first, and adjust assignments based on available resources and changing conditions.
 Allow each organization to determine their own priorities within their mission area, establish regular coordination meetings to share information, and focus on ensuring that the most visible and politically sensitive tasks are completed first.


9.
You are managing your organization's operating budget during the fiscal year when an unexpected major flood event requires immediate resource deployment. The emergency response will exceed your allocated emergency funds, but delaying action could result in significant infrastructure damage and public safety risks. Your general administrative funds could cover the shortfall, but this would impact planned training and equipment maintenance programs. How do you proceed?

 Limit emergency response actions to those that can be funded within existing emergency allocations, request expedited supplemental funding before authorizing additional expenditures, and maintain all planned administrative programs to avoid disrupting normal operations.
 Authorize emergency response actions using available emergency funds, seek approval for budget transfers from administrative accounts to cover additional costs, and plan to request supplemental appropriations to restore deferred programs later in the fiscal year.
 Immediately authorize necessary emergency expenditures to protect life and property, document all costs and justifications for budget reallocation, coordinate with higher headquarters for supplemental funding approval, and develop a plan to minimize impacts on deferred programs through alternative funding sources or schedule adjustments.
 Approve emergency expenditures up to available emergency funds, request immediate supplemental funding authorization from higher headquarters, implement cost control measures to minimize total expenditure, and identify which non-critical programs can be deferred to cover any remaining shortfall.
 Defer emergency response actions until supplemental funding can be secured through proper channels, maintain fiscal discipline by staying within allocated budgets, and focus on documenting the need for increased emergency funding in future budget requests.


10.
Your analysis reveals that the district's emergency response operations are experiencing significant inefficiencies due to outdated equipment, inadequate training programs, and poor coordination between functional areas. These issues are affecting response times and overall mission effectiveness. Multiple stakeholders have different opinions on priorities and solutions. How do you address these systemic issues?

 Maintain current operations while documenting all identified issues for future consideration, avoid making changes that could disrupt established procedures, and focus on working around existing limitations rather than implementing systemic improvements.
 Prioritize issues based on their impact on mission effectiveness, develop targeted solutions for the most critical problems first, create a stakeholder engagement plan to build consensus on priorities, and implement changes in phases to minimize operational disruption.
 Address each issue separately to avoid overwhelming the organization with too many changes, focus on solutions that require minimal investment, and implement improvements gradually as resources and consensus allow.
 Conduct a comprehensive operational assessment to quantify impacts and root causes, engage all stakeholders in developing integrated solutions that address equipment, training, and coordination issues, create an implementation plan with measurable milestones, and establish performance metrics to track improvements.
 Focus on the most easily addressable issues to demonstrate quick improvements, develop business cases for major equipment and training investments, and work with stakeholders to identify compromise solutions that partially address all concerns.


11.
You are tasked with preparing a comprehensive staff action to support a potential multi-state flood response operation. The analysis must include resource requirements, coordination protocols, legal authorities, and risk assessments. You have access to historical data, but some information is incomplete, and time constraints limit your ability to gather additional primary data. How do you approach this analysis?

 Focus the analysis on areas where reliable data is available, use historical precedents to estimate requirements for areas with limited information, and clearly identify assumptions and limitations in the staff action recommendations.
 Use only verified historical data to avoid making assumptions, limit the analysis to areas where complete information is available, and recommend conducting additional research before proceeding with any major operational decisions.
 Base the analysis primarily on the most recent similar operation, supplement with available historical data, make conservative estimates for uncertain areas, and recommend gathering additional information during implementation.
 Utilize all available historical data and best practices from similar operations, conduct targeted research to fill the most critical information gaps, develop multiple scenarios to account for uncertainties, and provide recommendations with identified risks and mitigation strategies.
 Develop a systematic research methodology using available historical data and expert consultation, identify information gaps and their potential impact on recommendations, create analytical frameworks that account for uncertainties, and present findings with clear assumptions and confidence levels for decision-makers.


12.
A severe weather system is approaching your district, with potential for flooding in three different river basins. Each basin has different population densities, infrastructure vulnerabilities, and access challenges. Your district has limited specialized equipment and personnel that cannot be deployed to all locations simultaneously. Weather forecasts show uncertainty about which basin will be most severely affected. How do you determine support requirements and deploy resources?

 Conduct risk assessments for each basin considering population, infrastructure, and access factors, develop deployment scenarios based on different weather outcomes, position resources at strategic locations for rapid redeployment, and establish triggers for resource movement based on real-time conditions.
 Wait for more definitive weather forecasts before deploying resources to avoid unnecessary movements, maintain all resources at headquarters for rapid deployment once the primary impact area is identified, and rely on local authorities for initial response in all basins.
 Distribute available resources equally among all three basins to ensure some level of coverage everywhere, focus on areas with the best access for equipment deployment, and plan to concentrate resources once the most affected area becomes clear.
 Deploy resources to the basin with the highest population density while maintaining monitoring capabilities for other areas, establish protocols for rapid resource redeployment based on changing conditions, and coordinate with neighboring districts for additional support if needed.
 Analyze historical flood patterns and current conditions for each basin, prioritize deployment based on population at risk and infrastructure criticality, maintain mobile reserves for rapid response to emerging situations, and coordinate with local authorities to optimize resource utilization.


13.
Senior leadership is facing a complex decision about whether to recommend evacuation of a major metropolitan area due to an approaching Category 3 hurricane with an uncertain track. The storm could make landfall anywhere within a 200-mile stretch of coast, and evacuation would affect over 2 million people. Economic impacts of unnecessary evacuation would be substantial, but failure to evacuate could result in significant casualties. What advice do you provide?

 Recommend evacuation for areas with the highest storm surge risk and limited shelter options, suggest voluntary evacuation for other areas with adequate shelter infrastructure, and provide timelines for final evacuation decisions based on improved forecast accuracy.
 Advise waiting for more accurate storm track predictions before making evacuation decisions, recommend preparing evacuation plans for immediate implementation, and suggest focusing on ensuring adequate shelter and supply availability for those who remain.
 Present a comprehensive risk analysis including probability-weighted scenarios for different storm tracks, recommend a phased evacuation strategy starting with the most vulnerable areas, provide decision timelines based on forecast confidence levels, and outline contingency plans for rapid escalation or de-escalation based on updated forecasts.
 Analyze the costs and benefits of evacuation versus sheltering in place for different population segments, recommend evacuation for high-risk areas while preparing shelter options for others, provide clear decision criteria based on storm track updates, and outline communication strategies for public messaging.
 Recommend against evacuation due to the economic costs and uncertainty in the forecast, advise focusing on shelter-in-place preparations and emergency response capabilities, and suggest that modern building codes provide adequate protection for most residents.


14.
During an active emergency response, your field teams are reporting conflicting information about levee conditions at a critical location. One team reports significant seepage that could indicate imminent failure, while another team at the same location reports normal conditions. Both teams are experienced, but weather conditions are making detailed assessments difficult. Local authorities are asking for immediate guidance on whether to evacuate downstream communities. What guidance do you provide?

 Accept the assessment from the more senior team leader, maintain normal monitoring procedures since one team reported normal conditions, advise local authorities that the situation is under control, and focus resources on other priority areas.
 Send additional personnel with specialized monitoring equipment to provide an independent assessment, implement immediate precautionary measures for downstream areas, establish continuous monitoring protocols, and prepare evacuation recommendations while awaiting definitive assessment results.
 Request both teams to document their findings in detail, focus on areas where both teams agree there are concerns, recommend that local authorities make evacuation decisions based on their own risk tolerance, and continue standard monitoring procedures.
 Direct the teams to work together to reconcile their assessments, implement enhanced monitoring at the location, recommend that local authorities prepare for potential evacuation while awaiting clearer information, and establish hourly reporting requirements.
 Direct both teams to conduct independent re-assessments using different evaluation methods, deploy a third team with specialized equipment for verification, implement precautionary measures based on the worst-case scenario while gathering additional data, and provide regular updates to local authorities with clear timelines for final determination.


15.
You need to brief senior leadership on your district's emergency preparedness status following a recent exercise that revealed several significant deficiencies. The briefing audience includes your district commander, regional leadership, and congressional staff members. The deficiencies involve equipment shortages, training gaps, and coordination issues that could impact response effectiveness. How do you structure and present this information?

 Present all identified deficiencies with general recommendations for improvement, emphasize that many issues are common across similar organizations, focus on solutions that can be implemented with existing resources, and request guidance on priorities from leadership.
 Present a balanced assessment that clearly identifies deficiencies and their operational impacts, provide specific recommendations with timelines and resource requirements, include progress made since the exercise and planned improvements, and offer multiple options for addressing the most critical issues with associated costs and benefits.
 Minimize the significance of identified deficiencies by emphasizing that the exercise was particularly challenging, focus on areas where the district performed well, present only solutions that require minimal additional resources, and suggest that most issues can be resolved through minor procedural adjustments.
 Focus on the most critical deficiencies that pose the greatest operational risks, present recommended solutions with cost estimates and implementation timelines, acknowledge areas where progress has been made, and request specific support for addressing priority issues.
 Structure the briefing to highlight both strengths and areas for improvement, present deficiencies with clear impact assessments and recommended solutions, include timelines for implementation and required resources, and provide metrics for measuring improvement progress.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙