Position Title
SUPERVISORY ALCOHOL & TOBACCO TAX SPECIALIST
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12901803 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
 Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
 Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the GS-13, specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed above and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Researching, reviewing and advising on financial accounting related projects or tax related documents; AND
- Developing plans, policies, and procedures for an organization; AND
- Supervising or leading employees involved in financial accounting or tax compliance or oversight.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


For the GS-12, specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed above and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Researching, reviewing and advising on financial accounting related projects or tax related documents; AND
- Assisting in the development of plans, policies, and procedures for an organization.


2.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-11 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


3.
From the following list, select the supervisory duties you have performed.
 A. I have planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. I have assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. I have instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 D. I have worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 E. I have resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 F. I have addressed employees’ conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 G. I have coached employees on performance issues.
 H. I have followed necessary steps when an employee’s performance did not improve.
 I. I have overseen the performance of other staff on a team, but not as a formal supervisor.
 J. I have developed performance improvement plans.
 K. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


4.
Choose the one response that best describes your highest level of experience developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse group of people taking into account individual goals, values and sensitivities.
 I have provided guidance to people to prioritize work and then accomplish within the established timeframe.
 I have led, supervised and managed professional and administrative staff in the design and delivery of programs and projects.
 I have led a workforce consisting of employees with varying occupations and knowledge levels.
 I have led a management evaluation or assessment team to provide assistance on organizational programs.
 I have served as acting supervisor on occasion, and assisted the supervisor in developing and leading others.
 I have led, directed and motivated team members to accomplish specific projects.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


5.
Indicate your experience in maintaining and promoting effective working relationships with managers, supervisors and co-workers. (Check all that apply)
 A. I have established effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers.
 B. I have led efforts to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers.
 C. I have worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers.
 D. I have developed programs to promote establishing effective working relationships with managers, supervisors, co-workers.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Choose the statement(s) that describes your experience in communicating information related to your work activities, including making presentations to diverse groups including high-ranking management officials in Federal, and/or private sector organizations.
 A. I have justified controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 B. I have delivered formal presentations or training sessions concerning job specific information.
 C. I have persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow recommended courses of action.
 D. I have participated in meetings to discuss policies and procedures and present findings.
 E. I have provided advice to managers on program operations, policies and regulatory requirements.
 F. I have recommended remedial action to correct existing or potential problems.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Choose the statements that describe your communication / briefing experience that you use as a regular part of your job to support agency goals and the agency leadership.
 A. I communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in oral presentations.
 B. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 C. I brief individuals outside the organization on agency goals and objectives.
 D. I defend agency positions with individuals outside of the agency.
 E. I build consensus through collaboration from others to obtain information, achieve results and accomplish goals.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


8.
Please select the statement(s) that describe your experience in communicating in writing.
 A. I have developed operating instructions and/or formal instructions or directives.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and proposals.
 C. I have answered congressional correspondence.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


9.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in conducting analyses of processes to increase program effectiveness.
 A. I have experience in the identification of issues.
 B. I have experience in the development of methods and approaches for gathering data.
 C. I have experience in analytical techniques to review data and processes.
 D. I have experience in the development of recommendations.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


10.
Choose statement(s) that describe your program management experience in achieving organizational mission.
 A. I have advised, consulted with, and/or negotiated with customers in the delivery of projects or programs.
 B. I have set goals and objectives for accomplishments of programs or projects.
 C. I have monitored and tracked program and organizational accomplishment.
 D. I have established and tracked program delivery performance measures.
 E. I have developed annual work plans, objectives, priorities, workloads or resources, and schedules for accomplishment of work plans.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Choose the response that best describes your level of experience with policies and procedures pertaining to laws and regulations enforced by local, city, county, state, or federal governing bodies involving financial accounting or tax collection.
 I have experience where I led a group of specialists in cases which required the use of laws, regulations, policies and procedures pertaining to financial accounting or tax collection.
 I have experience where I participated in cases, which required the use of laws, regulations, policies and procedures pertaining to financial accounting or tax collection.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


12.
Do you have experience interpreting laws and regulations?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙