Position Title
Automated Examination Systems Specialist (AESS / RGS / AIMS-ACE Coordinator)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13065167O-TSN-0501-09 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

GS-09 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience with examination and Frivolous Return Program, PDC Referral Unit (RU) functions and work processes, and financial practices for inventory purposes, procedures, regulations, and policies used in Exam operations; Experience using the Examination and/or EITC Certification Processes, RGS/CEAS processing, AIMS, RGS/CEAS processing, Exam Procedures, tax law, RU procedures along with corresponding Compliance programs, such as ACS, and correspondence examination. Experience applying software applications used in CSCO Operations and Exam Operations, including RGS, Word, Excel, Outlook, and Access; Experience working with automated systems and programs, including their connectivity and integration to Batch, some examples include: IDRS, RGS, CEAS, AIMS; Experience working with AIMS and/or RGS Batch system hardware, software, applications, information sources, and operating procedures to assist users in problem identification, maintenance, and testing. Experience applying fact-finding and analytical techniques to gather information and assist in addressing administrative, compliance, and basic work distribution problems.
OR You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university. 
OR 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education in any field of study from an accredited college or university. 
OR LL.B or J.D., if related. 
OR You may qualify by a combination of education and experience.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
GS-09 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience with examination and Frivolous Return Program, PDC Referral Unit (RU) functions and work processes, and financial practices for inventory purposes, procedures, regulations, and policies used in Exam operations; Experience using the Examination and/or EITC Certification Processes, RGS/CEAS processing, AIMS, RGS/CEAS processing, Exam Procedures, tax law, RU procedures along with corresponding Compliance programs, such as ACS, and correspondence examination. Experience applying software applications used in CSCO Operations and Exam Operations, including RGS, Word, Excel, Outlook, and Access; Experience working with automated systems and programs, including their connectivity and integration to Batch, some examples include: IDRS, RGS, CEAS, AIMS; Experience working with AIMS and/or RGS Batch system hardware, software, applications, information sources, and operating procedures to assist users in problem identification, maintenance, and testing. Experience applying fact-finding and analytical techniques to gather information and assist in addressing administrative, compliance, and basic work distribution problems. 

OR You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university. OR 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education in any field of study from an accredited college or university. OR LL.B or J.D., if related. OR You may qualify by a combination of education and experience.

Which of the following is true about your education or specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have two (2) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education as described above.
 I have a Master s or equivalent graduate degree as described above.
 I have a LL.B or J.D., if related.
 I have an equivalent amount of combined graduate education and experience equal to that described above.
 None of the above.


2.
Which of the following statements describes your work environment experiences?
 A. Served as subject matter expert for group or team.
 B. Led a task force to develop internal action plans and strategies.
 C. Worked with cross-functional internal customers.
 D. Trained or served as a classroom instructor
 E. None of the above.


3.
Which of the following describes your experience providing assistance to your co-workers?
 Helped others with account and/or tax related issues.
 Researched, presented, and explained the impact of systems changes at group meetings.
 Participated in a team project and made recommendations to improve information reporting.
 Identified and elevated hardware or software issue(s) to management for resolution.
 None of the above.


4.
Which of the following applications/systems have you used to answer questions or provide information for your manager or other management officials?
 A. Correspondence Examination Automation Support (CEAS).
 B. Report Generation Software (RGS) and run Generated Integrated Interface (GII) report.
 C. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS).
 D. Audit Information Management System (AIMS).
 E. Accounts Management System (AMS).
 F. Integrated Automated Technology (IAT).
 G. None of the above.


5.
Which of the following tasks are you proficient at?
 A. Creating spreadsheets using Microsoft Excel that use formulas to calculate values.
 B. Creating databases using Microsoft Access to generate reports for management.
 C. Creating content (any) that was posted to an IRS website.
 D. Using Microsoft Word to develop a template and record changes using the Track Changes feature.
 E. Have been or currently am an administrator for an application or system.
 F. None of the above.


6.
Which of the following have you experienced resolving taxpayers' problems as the primary part of your job?
 A. Resolved taxpayers' problems through written correspondence by identifying their needs when there were multiple, conflicting issues.
 B. Controlled the conversation with internal or external customers to focus on pertinent issues under difficult circumstances.
 C. Assisted co-workers with resolving problems interpreting data or resolving rejects.
 D. Assisted management in dealing with a taxpayer's issue such as a Congressional Inquiry, or TAS case.
 E. None of the above.


7.
Which of the following have you used to promote tax compliance and achieve business results?
 A. Acted as technical expert on issues affecting business results.
 B. Performed quality review of account actions and recorded findings
 C. Analyzed data and provided recommendations to operation manager on the management and control of various inventories and workloads.
 D. Provided recommendations to P & A Analyst on the management and control of various inventories and workloads.
 E. None of the above.


8.
For which of the following have you used the IRM? For which of the following have you used the IRM?
 A. Used it to research taxpayers issues that cross multiple business units.
 B. Identified and explained IRM updates affecting taxpayers issues to co-workers.
 C. Used to resolve taxpayers issues (e.g., adjusting accounts, multiple filer, identity theft).
 D. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following tasks have you performed with regard to systemic issues (e.g., outages, slow response time, programming and calculation errors)?
 A. Identified and determined the cause of systemic issues.
 B. Made a recommendation to management/HQ to address systemic issues
 C. Monitored systems and reports to ensure systemic issues are resolved.
 D. None of the above


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙