Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Physical Fitness)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12841279 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Sunday, December 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a minimum of three years of experience that demonstrates a working knowledge of physical fitness?
OR
Do you have degree from an accredited college/university in a related field (may be substituted for two years of experience) and one year experience that demonstrates a working knowledge of physical fitness?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a current valid certification in CPR and First Aid? (Must provide proof of current valid certification at time of application)
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have planning, organizing and conducting a physical fitness program?
 I have 3+ years experience in the above.
 I have 2 - 3 years experience in the above.
 I have 1 - 2 years experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
Do you have experience in conducting microfit testing which includes measuring individuals aerobic capacities, their body fat percentage, recommended height/weight ratios, strength, flexibility, muscular endurance and blood pressure?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙