Position Title
Supervisory Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responder)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12840713-26-VPM Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responder) position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfather Provision: A Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responder) employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (11/3/2020) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0101-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements. Please note employees who are converted to title 38 hybrid status under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English?

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education and Experience (Basic Requirement): Select the ONE statement below that best describes your education and experience to meet the basic requirements for this position.
 Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university. The degree must be in a behavioral health or social science related field appropriate to the work of the position (e.g., psychology, social work, sociology, family counseling, mental health counseling, nursing, ministry and criminal justice) *Transcripts Required*
 Two years of specialized experience as a first responder (e.g., Police, Medic, Emergency Medical Technician, Emergency Dispatch, etc.) or in a social science related field that included behavioral health crisis response, AND two years of higher education (i.e., above the high school level) from an accredited college or university in a behavioral health or social science related field appropriate to the work of the position (e.g., psychology, social work, sociology, family counseling, mental health counseling, nursing, ministry and criminal justice). *Transcripts Required*
 Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in any field AND one year of specialized experience that included behavioral health crisis response or mental health counseling. *Transcripts Required*
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation (Hybrid Title 38 Social Science Specialist Crisis Responder) that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education requirements necessary to meet the basic requirements for the position.


4.
Qualification Requirement: Select the one statement below that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Supervisory Social Science Specialist (Crisis Responder), GS-12:
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level, which is directly related to the position to be filled.
 I do not meet the specialized experience required for this position.


5.
You must be able to demonstrate the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) for appointment at this grade level and assignment. Please choose a response below in regards to the following KSAs:

A. Knowledge and skill in management/administration, which includes supervision, consultation, negotiations, and monitoring
B. Ability to write policies, procedures, and or/practice guidelines.
C. Ability to effectively interact with individuals and groups with cultural differences to problem-solve and negotiate complex issues and obtain cooperation
D. Ability to provide training, orientation, consultation, and guidance within clinical specialization of practice
E. Skill in developing interpersonal relationships including the ability to address the unique needs of Crisis Responders. This includes the provision of postvention as professionally indicated.
F. Ability to evaluate program effectiveness and make recommendations for change, as appropriate.

NOTE: These KSAs must be demonstrated and represented within your resume.

Do you meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities as mentioned above?
 Yes, I possess the KSAs listed above.
 No, I do not possess the KSAs listed above.


6.
Are you willing and able to work nights, weekends and holidays as needed to support the 24/7 operations of the Veterans Crisis Line?
 Yes I am willing and able to work nights, weekends and holidays as needed to support the 24/7 operations of the Veterans Crisis Line.
 No I am not willing and able to work nights, weekends and holidays as needed to support the 24/7 operations of the Veterans Crisis Line.


Current Federal Employees: You must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), that clearly demonstrate you have met eligibility requirements for this announcement. Your SF-50 must include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.

Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.

HPT Eligibility Only - Veterans Preference Documentation Reminder: In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙