Position Title
Executive Assistant
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
350-26-SH-13028296-16-(NBU) Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTION: Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veteran Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience and/or education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. PLEASE NOTE THIS ANNOUNCEMENT IS ONLY OPEN TO Current Little Rock Regional Office, Little Rock Arkansas VBA Employees, or Career Transition Assistance Plan eligible (CTAP).


This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employee of the Little Rock , Little Rock, Arkansas, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) CTAP eligible


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is opened ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Little Rock Arkansas, Little Rock, Arkansas Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office employees and Veterans Affairs Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible. From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for the Executive Assistant, GS-301-11.
 Yes, I am currently employed by the Little Rock, Arkansas, VBA Regional Office. I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment. (Must be an employee of the Little Rock Regional Office)
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I am not a current and permanent employee of the Little Rock, Arkansas, VBA Regional Office nor am I a current/former VA employee who is a Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible.


INSTRUCTION: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the TIME-IN-GRADE requirement. Select the response that best represents your eligibility for the Executive Assistant, GS-301-11 position. Note that if you previously held a higher grade, you must submit an SF-50 showing that grade as well as a current SF-50.


2.
TIME IN GRADE: I am a current Little Rock Regional Office, Little Rock Arkansas, VBA employee or CTAP eligible that has at least one (1) year (time-in-grade) at the GS-09 grade level or higher. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal Service. (Note: To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50.
 Yes, I am a current Little Rock Regional Office, Little Rock, Arkansas employee or CTAP eligible that have at least one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-9 level or higher to qualify for the GS-10. SF 50s must be submitted to show proof of time-in grade. You can submit more than one SF50 to show proof of time-in-grade such as a within grade or a promotion.
 No, I have not held one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-9 or higher to qualify for the GS-11.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Specialized Experience/or Education for the Executive Assistant, GS-0301-11 position.


3.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the Executive Assistant, GS-0301-11 position.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience in setting up and maintaining the Regional Office’s mailbox(es); making travel arrangements for management staff; preparing correspondence for timely distribution; functioning as an office manager making appointments, managing schedules, maintaining calendars and coordinating meetings; and serving as the main timekeeper for the Director’s office.
 Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., IF RELATED.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however my combined experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification.
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, or C.


4.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙