Position Title
IT Cybersecurity Specialist (INFOSEC)
Agency
Defense Microelectronics Activity
Announcement Number
DMEA-26-13014003-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 NH-02 Qualifications - Experience: I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-01 (GS-4) level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience in a position covered by the DoD Cyber Workforce Framework (https://www.cyber.mil/dod-workforce-innovation-directorate/dod-cyber-workforce-framework) or equivalent experience; Contributing to and implementing cybersecurity policies; Conducting key concepts in security management (e.g. Patch Management) and basic system administration, network, and operating system hardening techniques; Implementing cybersecurity related projects or initiatives; Monitoring external data to maintain currency of cyber defense threat condition and determine which security issues may have an impact on the enterprise.
 NH-02 Qualifications - Education Substitution: I possess 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree.
 NH-02 Qualifications - Combination: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 NH-03 Qualifications: Experience in a position covered by the DoD Cyber Workforce Framework (https://www.cyber.mil/dod-workforce-innovation-directorate/dod-cyber-workforce-framework) or equivalent experience; Implementing, developing, contributing to, or authoring cybersecurity policies; Overseeing or conducting key concepts in security management (e.g. Patch Management) and basic system administration, network, and operating system hardening techniques; Implementing or managing cybersecurity related projects or initiatives; Monitoring external data to maintain currency of cyber defense threat condition and determine which security issues may have an impact on the enterprise.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙