Position Title
Attorney-Advisor (General)
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
DE-13049654-26-LDC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Merit Plan Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Before applying you are encouraged to thoroughly read the Job Opportunity Announcement (JOA) for additional information regarding this vacancy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check?
 Yes
 No


2.
You must meet the minimum basic educational requirements for Attorney positions. Choose the one answer that best describes your educational background required for an Attorney position.
 I have a J.D., LL.B., and/or LL.M.
 I do not possess any of the degrees listed above.


3.
If selected for this position, upon entering on duty you will be required to be an active member of the bar in good standing of at least one state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Please indicate your current bar membership status by selecting A, B, or C.
 I am currently an active member of the bar in good standing of at least one state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I am a member of the bar of at least one state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I am not a member of the bar of at least one state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


4.
Select the one statement below that BEST describes your highest level of post-professional law degree legal experience, and that accurately describes your demonstrated ability to perform the work of a GS-12 Attorney Advisor (General).
 I am a member of a State bar, the bar of the District of Columbia, or the bar of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or other possession of the United States and has 2 years of progressively responsible professional experience working as a practicing attorney in the Federal or non-Federal service performing any of the following duties or assignments: compliance, litigation, audits, investigations, legal research, regulations/policy, or other similar areas. This experience must be comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-11 federal grade level. This must include activities such as: (1) conducting legal research of policies, regulations, and/or compliance questions, including researching legal precedent; (2) drafting briefs, motions, or other legal documents; and (3) making oral presentations of legal research/analysis.
 I have a Scientiae Juris Doctor degree (Doctor of Juridical Science degree).
 I do not have any of the specialized experience listed above.


5.
Select the one statement below that BEST describes your highest level of post-professional law degree legal experience, and that accurately describes your demonstrated ability to perform the work of a GS-13 Attorney Advisor (General).
 I have at least 3 years of professional experience after admission to the bar, including at least ONE YEAR of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-12 level in the Federal service or non-Federal service in the Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act; ethics, whistleblower matters or legislative affairs and experience in ONE of the following legal areas: criminal, civil or administrative investigations and procedure, federal grants or acquisitions, audits, or appropriations law.
 I do not have any of the specialized experience listed above.


6.
Select the one statement below that BEST describes your highest level of post-professional law degree legal experience, and that accurately describes your demonstrated ability to perform the work of a GS-14 Attorney Advisor (General).
 I have at least 4 years of professional experience after admission to the bar, including at least ONE YEAR of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-13 level in the Federal or non-Federal service in the Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act; ethics, whistleblower matters or legislative affairs and experience advising on TWO of the following legal areas: criminal, civil or administrative investigations and procedure, federal grants or acquisitions, audits, or appropriations law.
 I do not have any of the specialized experience listed above.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if my resume does not support or substantiate my responses to the assessment questionnaire, my application will be removed from consideration. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, my rating will be lowered, my job eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. An answer to this question is required.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in the questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙