Position Title
Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12893817-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


5.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0808 - Architecture
 C. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 D. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 E. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 60 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect?s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineer at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes performing 2 out of 3 following duties 1) Developing designs for construction projects; OR 2) Reviewing project designs to ensure that contract specifications are met; OR 3) Managing project budgets and milestones.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are managing a complex medical facility design project. The original schedule specified completion of schematic design by month 6, design development by month 10, and construction documents by month 14. However, the customer has requested significant scope changes that will impact the timeline, and the design team is expressing concerns about meeting the original milestones. How do you proceed?

 Implement a phased milestone approach that allows for scope change integration at specific checkpoints, maintaining some original dates while building in flexibility for customer-requested modifications and design team capacity constraints.
 Convene a comprehensive milestone review meeting with all stakeholders to assess scope change impacts, discuss revised milestone dates that accommodate necessary changes while maintaining project integrity, and formalize updated timelines with clear deliverable expectations.
 Maintain the original milestone schedule regardless of scope changes and design team concerns, requiring the design team to meet original deadlines through additional resources or overtime work at their own expense.
 Extend all milestone dates by a standard buffer period to accommodate scope changes and design team concerns, then notify all parties of the revised schedule without detailed analysis of the specific impacts or requirements.
 Work directly with design team to develop a recovery schedule that addresses their concerns, then coordinate with the customer to explain timeline adjustments and seek approval for milestone modifications that balance scope changes with schedule requirements.


2.
You are coordinating a major training facility project that requires integration of structural, mechanical, electrical, and environmental engineering disciplines. The planning phase has identified potential conflicts between the proposed building design and new environmental regulations, while cost engineering indicates the current design approach may exceed budget constraints. How do you coordinate the various engineering disciplines to address these challenges?

 Schedule sequential meetings with each engineering discipline to understand their specific concerns and requirements, then develop a coordination plan that addresses environmental and cost issues through design modifications and alternative approaches identified by the technical teams.
 Direct each engineering discipline to independently develop solutions for their area of responsibility, then compile their recommendations into a comprehensive project plan that addresses environmental and cost concerns through separate work packages.
 Establish an integrated design team with representatives from each engineering discipline, facilitate collaborative sessions to identify design solutions that meet environmental requirements within budget constraints, and develop a coordinated project plan that sequences work to optimize interdisciplinary coordination and minimize rework.
 Prioritize the original design approach and direct engineering disciplines to find ways to meet environmental regulations and budget constraints without modifying the fundamental project concept or coordination approach.
 Create a matrix organization structure that assigns lead responsibility for environmental and cost issues to specific disciplines, while maintaining regular coordination meetings to ensure all engineering considerations are integrated into the overall project plan.


3.
During the design phase of a federal facility, the customer expresses concerns about the project's progress and claims they were not adequately informed about recent technical issues that may impact the schedule and budget. Other stakeholders, including the Project Delivery Team and other internal technical teams, have different perspectives on the adequacy of communication. How do you reconcile these concerns?

 Conduct individual meetings with each stakeholder to understand their perspectives, facilitate a comprehensive project review meeting to clarify technical issues and their impacts, establish improved communication protocols, and implement regular updates to prevent future misunderstandings.
 Meet with the customer to understand their specific concerns and information needs, then coordinate with other stakeholders to develop a communication plan that addresses identified gaps while maintaining appropriate information flow.
 Acknowledge the customer's concerns and provide them with detailed project status information, then remind all stakeholders of their communication responsibilities and increase the frequency of status reports.
 Organize a stakeholder meeting to address the customer's concerns directly, review the technical issues and their actual impacts, and establish enhanced communication procedures to ensure all parties receive timely and accurate project information.
 Explain to the customer that technical issues are normal in complex projects and that the current communication approach is standard practice, while continuing existing communication procedures without significant modifications.


4.
During the 35% design phase of a MILCON operations facility, the Using Service informs you that their operational requirements have shifted, and they now require modifications to the layout to accommodate additional secure storage areas. The requested changes are within the programmed square footage but will require adjustments to the current design, potentially impacting the schedule and budget. The Using Service emphasizes the importance of these changes for mission readiness and requests immediate action before the next milestone review. What is your approach?

 Inform the Using Service that the requested changes cannot be accommodated within the current design and proceed with the original layout without further coordination.
 Analyze whether the current design can be reconfigured to accommodate the requested changes without impacting the schedule or budget significantly, and brief stakeholders on the feasibility of the adjustments.
 Meet with the PM and Using Service to evaluate the requested changes, assess their impact on the schedule and budget, and develop a revised design plan that incorporates the changes while maintaining compliance with the programmed scope and funding limitations.
 Direct the design team to incorporate the requested changes immediately and prepare updated cost estimates to address potential funding impacts later.
 Modify the design to include the requested changes while reducing other essential components to stay within the programmed scope, without notifying the PM or documenting the adjustments.


5.
You are managing the design of a hydroelectric powerhouse project that involves coordination between multiple stakeholders, including federal agencies, state environmental regulators, and local building authorities. During the design development phase, the customer informs you that new operational requirements will require adjustments to the design, while state regulators have introduced additional environmental compliance measures. These changes may impact the project schedule and budget. How do you ensure all requirements are properly integrated into the project plan?

 Analyze the new requirements and their impact on the design, then develop a compliance plan that minimizes schedule and budget impacts. Provide a summary of the plan to the customer and stakeholders.
 Convene a multi-stakeholder coordination meeting to review the new requirements, assess their impact on the design, schedule, and budget, and develop a revised project plan that incorporates compliance strategies while addressing customer concerns. Document the agreed-upon changes and communicate them to all stakeholders.
 Work with the customer and design team to identify alternative approaches that meet the new requirements, then brief stakeholders on the proposed adjustments and their impact on the schedule and budget.
 Maintain the current design approach and assume that the new requirements can be addressed during construction, without notifying the customer or stakeholders of the potential risks.
 Inform the customer that the new requirements will require significant changes to the design and schedule, then proceed with the adjustments without further coordination.


6.
As Project Design Manager, you observe that multiple disciplines have rushed drawings to meet the 65% design milestone for a federal medical facility. Mechanical and structural coordination remains unresolved, and fire protection calculations are incomplete. Section chiefs argue that "we can fix it at 95%," but you know quality deficiencies at this stage often cascade into rework, schedule slip, and increased costs. How do you proceed?

 Reduce QA/QC requirements to accelerate milestone completion and avoid delays, assuming that minor deficiencies will not significantly impact the project.
 Require completion of critical coordination and life-safety elements before accepting the milestone, adjust the review schedule if necessary to preserve design integrity, and communicate the importance of quality to all stakeholders.
 Accept the milestone as-is to protect performance metrics and rely on later phases to resolve issues, while reminding section chiefs of the importance of addressing deficiencies.
 Accept the submittal but formally document deficiencies, assign corrective actions with deadlines, and monitor closely to ensure issues are resolved before the next milestone.
 Approve the package and depend on Construction review to identify remaining issues during the build phase, assuming they can be resolved without major impacts.


7.
During the design development phase of a medical facility project, your budget analyst informs you that current funding may be insufficient to complete both the design and construction phases as originally planned. Additionally, recent scope changes have increased design costs, and construction cost estimates are trending higher than initial projections. How do you work with the budget analyst to address these funding challenges?

 Work with the budget analyst to quantify funding shortfalls and identify available contingency funds, then develop cost reduction strategies and alternative funding approaches that maintain essential project requirements while addressing budget constraints.
 Coordinate with the budget analyst to assess current funding status and explore options for additional funding sources, while implementing cost control measures and scope adjustments that align project requirements with available resources.
 Collaborate with the budget analyst to conduct comprehensive cost analysis of current and projected expenses, develop multiple funding scenarios with associated scope and schedule implications, identify potential contingency fund sources, and present options to leadership with recommendations for maintaining project viability.
 Direct the budget analyst to reallocate funds from other district projects to cover the shortfall, and continue the project as planned without scope or schedule modifications since the work is already underway.
 Request that the budget analyst identify additional funding sources to cover projected shortfalls, while continuing current project activities and deferring major decisions until funding availability is clarified.


8.
Your customer has expressed serious concerns about design progress on a critical infrastructure project, claiming they were not adequately informed about recent technical issues that may impact the project schedule and budget. Other stakeholders, including the Project Delivery Team and other internal technical teams, have different perspectives on communication adequacy and the significance of the technical issues. How do you reconcile these concerns?

 Acknowledge the customer's concerns and provide them with detailed project status information, then remind all stakeholders of their communication responsibilities and increase the frequency of status reports to all parties.
 Explain to the customer that technical issues are normal in complex projects and that the current communication approach is standard practice, while continuing existing communication procedures without significant modifications.
 Conduct individual meetings with each stakeholder to understand their perspectives and concerns, facilitate a comprehensive project review meeting with all parties to clarify technical issues and their impacts, establish improved communication protocols with clear responsibilities and frequencies, and implement regular stakeholder updates to prevent future misunderstandings.
 Meet with the customer to understand their specific concerns and information needs, then coordinate with other stakeholders to develop a communication plan that addresses identified gaps while maintaining appropriate information flow to all parties.
 Organize a stakeholder meeting to address the customer's concerns directly, review the technical issues and their actual impacts on schedule and budget, and establish enhanced communication procedures that ensure all parties receive timely and accurate project information.


9.
During the design development phase, a significant dispute has emerged between the design team and your internal technical review team regarding seismic design criteria. The design team believes the specified criteria are overly conservative and costly, while your technical team insists they are necessary for safety and regulatory compliance. The customer is concerned about both cost and schedule impacts of this unresolved issue. How do you resolve this problem?

 Convene meetings with each party to understand their technical positions and concerns, then work to identify compromise solutions that maintain essential safety requirements while addressing cost and schedule impacts through alternative design approaches.
 Organize a collaborative problem-solving session with the design team and technical team to review applicable codes and standards, evaluate alternative design approaches that meet safety requirements, and work toward a consensus solution that addresses cost and schedule concerns.
 Direct the technical team and design team to research industry standards and precedent projects to support their positions, then make a decision based on their findings while considering customer cost and schedule priorities.
 Facilitate a technical review meeting with all parties to examine the specific seismic design requirements and their basis, engage independent subject matter experts if needed to evaluate the technical merits of different approaches, negotiate a solution that balances safety requirements with cost considerations, and document the resolution with clear design criteria for project implementation.
 Instruct the design team to follow the original design criteria as specified by the technical team since safety requirements cannot be compromised, regardless of cost or schedule implications.


10.
During the design phase of a federal facility, the customer informs you that their operational requirements have shifted, and they now require modifications to the layout to accommodate additional secure storage areas. The requested changes are within the programmed square footage but will require adjustments to the current design, potentially impacting the schedule and budget. How do you proceed?

 Meet with the customer and Project Development Team to evaluate the requested changes, assess their impact on the schedule and budget, and develop a revised design plan that incorporates the changes while maintaining compliance with the programmed scope and funding limitations.
 Modify the design to include the requested changes while reducing other essential components to stay within the programmed scope, without notifying the PM or documenting the adjustments.
 Analyze whether the current design can be reconfigured to accommodate the requested changes without impacting the schedule or budget significantly, and brief stakeholders on the feasibility of the adjustments.
 Inform the customer that the requested changes cannot be accommodated within the current design and proceed with the original layout without further coordination.
 Direct the design team to incorporate the requested changes immediately and prepare updated cost estimates to address potential funding impacts later.


11.
During independent technical review, Construction identifies a foundation detail that may be impractical under anticipated soil conditions. The structural section maintains that the design is technically compliant with applicable codes and standards. The project schedule is aggressive, and redesign could impact advertisement and overall project milestones. How do you proceed?

 Request formal written justification from structural engineers supporting their design and forward it to Construction for further evaluation and resolution, ensuring all concerns are documented and addressed before advertisement.
 Inform Construction that design decisions rest solely with Engineering and proceed with the current design without further coordination or review.
 Convene structural, geotechnical, and Construction personnel to evaluate the concern, assess the practicality of the foundation detail under anticipated soil conditions, and revise drawings as required prior to endorsement to ensure constructability and project integrity.
 Remove the constructability comment from the record to avoid delays and proceed with the current design without addressing the concern.
 Approve the design as compliant with technical standards and defer resolution of constructability concerns to the field during construction, assuming adjustments can be made without major impacts.


12.
During the 65% design milestone review for a federal training facility, you observe that multiple disciplines have rushed drawings to meet the deadline. Mechanical and structural coordination remains unresolved, and fire protection calculations are incomplete. Section chiefs argue that "we can fix it at 95%," but you know quality deficiencies at this stage often cascade into rework, schedule slip, and increased costs. How do you proceed?

 Approve the package and depend on Construction review to identify remaining issues during the build phase, assuming they can be resolved without major impacts.
 Accept the milestone as-is to protect performance metrics and rely on later phases to resolve issues, while reminding section chiefs of the importance of addressing deficiencies.
 Reduce QA/QC requirements to accelerate milestone completion and avoid delays, assuming that minor deficiencies will not significantly impact the project.
 Require completion of critical coordination and life-safety elements before accepting the milestone, adjust the review schedule if necessary to preserve design integrity, and communicate the importance of quality to all stakeholders.
 Accept the submittal but formally document deficiencies, assign corrective actions with deadlines, and monitor closely to ensure issues are resolved before the next milestone.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙