Position Title
Fitness Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12900886 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in working for the Fitness Center in Navy Region Northwest. Please answer the following questions as they best relate to your professional experience. All transcripts, diplomas, and/or certifications must be included in the application to ensure applicants meet the minimum qualifications of this position. Failure to include those will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you currently possess a Fitness Instructor, Personal Trainer or Certification from NCCA accredited health/fitness organization. Copies of your certifications must be included in your application in order to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently possess your high school diploma/GED equivalent? Copies of transcript/diploma must be uploaded in order to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
What is your level of experience with the safe use, operation and maintenance of fitness equipment?
 No experience.
 Basic knowledge, but limited hands-on experience.
 Regularly used and maintain equipment.
 Extensive experience in equipment operation, maintenance, and training others.


4.
What is your experience in providing fitness training and programming to individuals and groups?
 No experience.
 Some experience working with small groups or individuals.
 Regularly lead fitness programs for various group sizes.
 Extensive experience developing and leading customized training programs for diverse groups.


5.
How would you rate your ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing?
 Limited communication experience.
 Comfortable with basic communication but need improvement.
 Strong verbal and written communication skills.
 Excellent communicator with experience in professional writing and public speaking.


6.
What is your experience level with Microsoft Office Programs (e.g. Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook)?
 No experience with the above.
 1-2 years of experience with the above.
 3-4 years of experience with the above.
 5+ years of experience with the above..


7.
A primary certification with elements of group fitness from one of the following accepted accredited health or fitness organizations is required for this position. This may include group fitness relating, but not limited to, yoga, barre, cycling, aquatics, etc. Please select the agency where your certification is obtained from. Copies of your certification must be included in your application in order to be considered for this position. 
AAPTE - Academy of Applied Personal Training Education
ACE - American Council on Exercise
ACSM - American College of Sports Medicine
ACTION Certification
AFAA – Athletics and Fitness Association
CI - The Cooper Institute for Aerobics Research
CSCCa - Collegiate Strength and Conditioning Coaches association
IFPA - International Fitness Professionals Association
ISFTA - International Sports & Fitness Trainers Association
NASM - National Academy of Sports Medicine
NAYS - National Alliance for Youth Sports
NCHEC - National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc.
NCSF - National Council on Strength and Fitness
NESTA - National Exercise and Sports Trainers Association
NETA - National Exercise Trainers Association
NFPT - National Federation of Professional Trainers
NSCA - National Strength and Conditioning Association
PTA Global, Inc.
TWCC - Training & Wellness Certification Commission
I have a certification from a health or fitness organization, but it is not listed.
I do not have a certification from a health or fitness organization.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙