Position Title
Associate Program Manager
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12986869 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14 is defined as one year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes the following:

- Experience evaluating of Community Development Entities (CDEs) and/or Community Development Financial institutions  (CDFIs) based on analysis of financial statements and other documentation; AND
- Experience evaluating funding applications related to economic development, CDEs and/or CDFIs; AND
- Experience leading funding application review phases (e.g. eligibility, external review, internal review, award selection); AND 
- Experience leading teams in completing projects or tasks; AND
- Experience identifying risks to program administration and proposing justifiable recommendations to senior leadership to mitigate identified risks; AND
- Experience proposing and implementing organizational efficiencies (e.g. improvement(s) in operational processes, customer service experience, decision making protocols, and policy and procedures).



1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


2.
Select all of the following for which you have professional experience developing, reviewing, and/or evaluating.
 A. Audited and Unaudited Financial Statements.
 B. Assessing Program Compliance.
 C. Financial and/or Operational Policies and Procedures.
 D. Organizational Capacity.
 E. Loan Products and Financial Services.
 F. Responsible Lending Practices.
 G. Organizational Leadership Structure.
 H. Strategic Plans.
 I. Organizational Performance.
 J. None of the above.


3.
In the responses below, select all that apply pertaining to your experience in reviewing and analyzing documents.
 A. Experience in evaluating policies and procedures for compliance with laws and/or regulations.
 B. Experience in analyzing legislation and/or policy to determine what impact changes will have on organizational programs.
 C. Experience in interpreting laws and regulations and reporting findings to management.
 D. No experience described above.


4.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience in writing (e.g. drafting program reports, composing documents or correspondence involving technical information, and adapts writing to the audience's level of knowledge).
 I have drafted reports and worked with others to draft reports that are thorough and well supported, accurate, extremely well organized, concise, and understandable.; edited and reviewed other documentation and portions of reports for technical accuracy, supportability, grammar, and recommendations.; integrated technical writing of others into one report; and wrote memos and letters pertaining to an evaluation and prepared interviews for management staff.
 I have edited and reviewed documentation and portions of reports for technical accuracy, supportability, grammar, and recommendations; summarized major portions of compliance work; integrated technical writing of others into one report; and wrote memos and letters pertaining to an evaluation and prepared interviews.
 I have summarized major portions of documents written by other people, wrote memos and letters pertaining to an evaluation, and prepared interviews that are reviewed by others.
 Do not have the experiences as describe above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you have professional experience analyzing financial statements of CDFI loan funds, banks, venture capital funds and credit unions?
 Yes
 No


6.
Make sure examples of this experience are clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


7.
Choose the one statement that BEST describes your highest level of responsibility for managing contracts.
 Leads pre-award and post-award contracting activities including drafting performance work statements, drafting government cost estimates, participating in contractor selection and negotiations, reviewing contractor deliverables, and monitoring contractor performance.
 Reviews contractor deliverables and monitors contractor performance.
 Drafts performance work statements, drafts government cost estimates, and participates in contractor selection and negotiations.
 Do not have the experiences as described above.


8.
Select all of the following that you have done as a routine part of your professional work experience?
 A. Established priorities and timelines among multiple projects.
 B. Initiated and managed projects through completion.
 C. Made resource decisions for competing projects.
 D. Assigned tasks and monitored performance of junior team members.
 E. Anticipated and resolved problems.
 F. None of the above.


9.
Select the one response that best describes your highest level of experience working on a team.
 I have experience identifying and informing superiors of potential situations that could disrupt achieving goals as well as in meeting program goals and objectives.
 I have actively participated in meeting program and/or evaluating program goals and objectives.
 I have been a junior member of a program team receiving direction from senior staff in order to evaluate program goals and objectives.
 I do not have experience as described above.


10.
Select the one response that best describes your highest level of interpersonal skills.
 I have experience in leading and motivating team members from various backgrounds in a professional and courteous manner and resolving significant conflicts among the team as well as conflicts with awardee personnel.
 I have experience in interacting with people from various backgrounds in professional and courteous manner and promoting open, candid, constructive, and regular exchanges and sharing of information among team members and communications with awardee personnel.
 I have experience in interacting with people from various backgrounds in a professional and courteous manner regardless of their backgrounds.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


11.
This position is responsible for producing a variety of written products. Please indicate which of the following types of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job. Select all that apply.
 A. Policy and procedural materials.
 B. Speeches or talking points for senior staff.
 C. Strategies and plans, which included analysis, findings and recommendations.
 D. Responses to external inquiries.
 E. Materials communicating organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities for varied audiences.
 F. Guidelines or procedural instructions for operational efficiency.
 G. Materials explaining or justifying decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 H. Comprehensive materials for trainings, briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 I. None of the above.


12.
Which one of the following statements best describes your ability to communicate orally and in writing in order to convey ideas and concepts, explain rationale, persuade and negotiate outcomes, and provide recommendations to supervisors?
 I have experience preparing presentations or training materials and giving presentations based on the materials to external audiences. I perform these functions independently with little supervision.
 I have performed this task/competency on the job, with assistance and/or close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have training in performing this task/competency, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 None of the above.


13.
Select all of the following that describe your ability to communicate orally and in writing in order to convey ideas and concepts, explain rationale, persuade and negotiate outcomes, and provide recommendations to supervisor.
 A. Experience preparing official presentations.
 B. Experience preparing training materials.
 C. Giving presentations to external audiences.
 D. Preparing memorandums based on facts, best practices and lessons learned.
 E. Justifying a position on a sensitive or controversial issue.
 F. Persuading management on the direction of a decision.
 G. Persuaded team or customer buy-in on a decision made by management.
 H. None of the above.


14.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your highest level of responsibility for conducting discussions and making presentations.
 I have responded to public inquiries.
 I have conducted outreach discussing mission, programs, and programmatic requirements and priorities.
 I have led discussions that entail in-depth or controversial policy decisions.
 I have led workgroups to plan, coordinate, or consult on interdepartmental initiatives or resolve a specific problem.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


If you have met the minimum qualification requirements and if your application rates high enough for Phase 1, you will then immediately be asked to complete the second assessment comprised of narrative responses.  The following questions will be reviewed and assessed by a Subject Matter Expert (SME) to determine your level of proficiency. 

There is a 2,500 character limit on each response. Please allow sufficient time to complete before midnight on the close date of the announcement. The narrative responses are expected to take one hour, at a minimum. Non-detailed and answers such as N/A, See Resume, etc. will be deemed ineligible.


Please do not share this link with anyone else, as this exclusive link is for you to complete your application. You may need to copy and paste the link into your browser. 

You will need to click on the APPLY button on the announcement and go through the 5 steps in USA Jobs to get to the narrative questions.

Exclusive Link: https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/874345300


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙