Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-13047762-26-JD-Foxtrot Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


6.

This position is Permanent, Part Time - 20 hrs per week. 
Are you willing to accept a Part Time position?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of this qualification standard, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements of this standard but met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed, the following provisions apply:
Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
If an assignment above the FPL requires an additional certification over and above the basic requirements, employees must meet the assignment-specific requirement before they can be promoted.
Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
Employees retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirement - English Language Proficiency.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403 (f).?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirement - Education.
Do you hold a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes
 No


2a.

Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree. 

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Type of Degree (bachelor's, master's, doctorate):
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:



3.
Basic Requirement - Certification.
Candidates must meet one of the certification options below. Please select the response that best meets this requirement.
 Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT
 Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT
 I do not hold a certification but, working towards one.
 I do not have any of the certificates nor working towards one; therefore I am ineligible.


Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-07:
Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.
Assignment: Employee at this level serves in a CLS entry-level position. It is expected that they receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require daily direct supervision.

Do you meet the basic requirements above?
 Yes
 No


5.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09: Experience or Education

Select the response that best describes your experience or education.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade GS-07. Employee at this level serves in a CLS entry-level position. (Examples of experience are: Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing, Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles, Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance, Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments, Ability to read and interpret written instructions, Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.)
 I have a Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I do not possess the education or experience; therefore ineligible


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09: KSAs
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs for the GS-09 level.
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
Do you possess the above KSAs?
 Yes
 No


7.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11: Experience or Education

Select the response that best describes your experience or education.
 I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-09. (Examples of GS-09 experience are: (a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing. (b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles. (c) Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance. (d) Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments. (e) Ability to read and interpret written instructions. (f) Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
 I have three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I do not possess the education or experience; therefore I am ineligible


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11: KSAs
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs at the GS-11 level:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Do you possess the KSAs above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙