Position Title
Physician-Primary Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12827625-26-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 06, 2025 to Nov 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
We appreciate your interest in the Physician position within our Primary Care department at the Fredericksburg VA Health Care Center. To ensure an accurate assessment of your qualifications, please respond to each question with complete honesty. Be aware that your experiences and educational background will be subject to verification.

For each item in the following section, please select the response that best aligns with your experience and/or training. Mark the appropriate oval in Section 25 of the Qualifications and Availability Form C, making sure to select only one letter for each statement: A - Yes or B - No. Thank you for your cooperation.


1.
Citizenship:

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Language:

To meet the requirements for direct patient-care positions, physicians must demonstrate proficiency in both spoken and written English, as mandated by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d). Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure:

As a qualified candidate for this federal position, please confirm if you possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in any State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.

Education:

Do you possess a degree of doctor of medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in medicine or osteopathic medicine? The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:

(1) School of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, OR

(2) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted.

(3) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (1) or (2) above, facility officials must verify with the Education Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed by the applicant.
 Yes
 No


5.
Residency:

As a qualified candidate for this federal position, please confirm if you possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in any State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Do you meet this requirement? Physicians are required to have completed residency training or its equivalent, which has been approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in an accredited core specialty training program that qualifies them for board certification. Please note that VA Physicians engaged in academic training programs may be mandated to obtain board certification to hold faculty status.

 Approved residencies include:

(1) Residencies accredited by recognized bodies for graduate medical education, specifically the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) or the American Osteopathic Association (AOA), as listed for the year in which the residency was completed, or

(2) Other residencies or their equivalents, as determined by the local Professional Standards Board, which have provided the applicant with appropriate professional training.

Have you completed your residency training as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Physical and Drug Screen:

I hereby confirm that I accept the terms of undergoing a pre-placement physical examination and drug screen in accordance with VA regulations. I understand the importance of these procedures in ensuring a safe and healthy work environment and am prepared to comply with the VA's requirements.
 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Completion:

I hereby certify that my application is accurate and complete. I understand that my rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives, and other documents I have submitted, as well as through reference checks as appropriate. I acknowledge the importance of providing truthful information and recognize that any deliberate attempts to falsify information may lead to non-selection or termination from the position. Furthermore, I am aware that such actions can result in being barred from federal employment.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙