Position Title
Attorney-Adviser
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
HQ-26-DE-12921794-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement for this position as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have completed a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) degree from a full course of study at a law school accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and (1) I am an active member in good standing of the bar of any state or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and (2) I have been admitted to practice law before a state or Federal court.
 I have a completed a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from a full course of study at a law school accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and (1) I am an active member in good standing of the bar of any state or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and (2) I have been admitted to practice law before a state or Federal court.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related professional legal experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Providing authoritative legal counsel on fiscal law and appropriation matters to clients at all levels, such as budget execution, appropriations, continuing resolutions, authorization legislation, or Anti-Deficiency Act questions and investigations; Analyzing legal authority for funding programs based on legislative language, conference committee reports or executive branch policy directives; Developing legal interpretations and written opinions on statutes, federal regulations, or directives to support organizational priorities and decision making; Applying legal knowledge in related general law areas, including government ethics, FOIA, or employment law, and contributes to the field through high quality work and mentorship in fiscal law.
 I have completed all requirements for a graduate professional law degree (e.g., LL.M., S.J.D., J.S.D.) and have 1 year of directly related professional legal experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Providing authoritative legal counsel on fiscal law and appropriation matters to clients at all levels, such as budget execution, appropriations, continuing resolutions, authorization legislation, or Anti-Deficiency Act questions and investigations; Analyzing legal authority for funding programs based on legislative language, conference committee reports or executive branch policy directives; Developing legal interpretations and written opinions on statutes, federal regulations, or directives to support organizational priorities and decision making; Applying legal knowledge in related general law areas, including government ethics, FOIA, or employment law, and contributes to the field through high quality work and mentorship in fiscal law.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-15 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related professional legal experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that included: Providing authoritative, independent legal advice and application of fiscal and appropriations law; Delivering legal analysis and written opinions, identifying complex issues and offering preventative legal guidance to support organizational objectives; Serve as an expert on fiscal and appropriations law to senior organizational leadership on budget and resource matters, informing organizational priorities and decision making; Applying expert knowledge in related general law areas, including government ethics, FOIA, or employment law, and contributes to the field through high quality work and mentorship in fiscal law.
 I have completed all requirements for a graduate professional law degree (e.g., LL.M., S.J.D., J.S.D.) and have 1 year of directly related professional legal experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that included: Providing authoritative, independent legal advice and application of fiscal and appropriations law; Delivering legal analysis and written opinions, identifying complex issues and offering preventative legal guidance to support organizational objectives; Serve as an expert on fiscal and appropriations law to senior organizational leadership on budget and resource matters, informing organizational priorities and decision making; Applying expert knowledge in related general law areas, including government ethics, FOIA, or employment law, and contributes to the field through high quality work and mentorship in fiscal law.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


Certification


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙