Position Title
Community Recreation Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13043178 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Community Recreation Director's position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess either a Bachelor's degree in Recreation OR a minimum of three years of comparable, progressive management experience that includes planning, budgeting, and coordinating multiple recreational programs and facilities simultaneously
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years do you have coordinating activities and events.
 Three plus years of documented experience.
 Two to Three years of documented experience.
 One to two years of documented experience.
 Less than one year of documented experience.
 No documented experience.


3.
Possess a valid state driver's license for operating government vehicles
 Yes I have a driver’s license.
 No I do not have a driver’s license.


4.
How many years of experience/knowledge do you possess in applying general business principles to the Department of the Navy (DON) budget process, specifically managing and optimizing both Appropriated Funds (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) to ensure maximum resource efficiency?
 I have 5+ years of experience in applying general business principles to the Department of the Navy (DON) budget process for both Appropriated Funds (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF)
 I have 3-4 years of experience in applying general business principles to the Department of the Navy (DON) budget process for both Appropriated Funds (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF)
 I have 1 year of experience in applying general business principles to the Department of the Navy (DON) budget process for both Appropriated Funds (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF)
 I have no experience.


5.
How many years of experience do you have supervising employees
 Three plus years of documented experience.
 Two to three years of documented experience.
 One to two years of documented experience.
 Less than one year of documented experience.
 No documented experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you possess skill in negotiating program issues and operational requirements with patrons and personnel inside and outside the local installation and community organizations?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙