Position Title
Civil Division Attorney - Location Negotiable
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
AT-13016056-26-BLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Nov 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13
14
15


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


3.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Wichita, KS
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. Buffalo, NY
 I. Raleigh, NC
 J. Cleveland, OH
 K. Charleston, SC
 L. Austin, TX
 M. Dallas, TX
 N. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


4.
Candidates may select up to three Sections for consideration, but may not select more than three.
 A. Federal Programs Branch
 B. Enforcement and Affirmative Litigation
 C. Office of Immigration Litigation
 D. Appellate Staff
 E. Aviation, Space and Admiralty
 F. Camp Lejeune Justice Act
 G. Constitutional and Specialized Tort Litigation
 H. Corporate Financial
 I. Environmental Tort Litigation
 J. Federal Tort Claims Act
 K. Civil Fraud
 L. Intellectual Property
 M. International Trade Field Office
 N. National Courts
 O. Radiation Exposure Compensation Program
 P. Tax Litigation Branch
 Q. Vaccine Injury Compensation Program
 R. 9/11 Victim Compensation Fund


Assessment 1
1.
Interested applicants must possess a J.D., or equivalent, degree, be duly licensed and authorized to practice as an attorney under the laws of any State, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia, and be an active member in good standing of any bar.

 Yes, I meet the above conditions.
 No, I do not meet the above conditions.


2.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade level, applicants must have up to one (1) year of legal experience.

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have up to one year of legal experience.
 No, I don't have the experience described above.


3.
To qualify at the GS-12 grade level, applicants must have a minimum of (1) or more years post-J.D. legal experience. 

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have one or more years of post J.D. legal experience as described above.
 No, I have less post J.D. legal experience than described above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade level, applicants must possess at least one and one-half (1.5) years of post-J.D. legal experience. 

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have at least one-half years of post J.D. legal experience as described above.
 No, I have less post J.D. legal experience than described above.


5.
To qualify at the GS-14 grade level, applicants must possess at least two and one-half (2.5) years of post-J.D. legal experience.

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have at least two and one-half years of post J.D. legal experience as described above.
 No, I have less post J.D. legal experience than described above.


6.
To qualify at the GS-15 grade level, applicants must possess at least four (4) years of post-J.D. legal experience.

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have at least four years of post J.D. legal experience as described above.
 No, I have less post J.D. legal experience than described above.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙