Position Title
Management & Program Analyst
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
LC-26-IMP-12941110 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently an employee of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)?
You may need to submit documents to prove this claim. Please review the Required Documents section of the job announcement to find the documents you need to submit.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Management & Program Analyst, PT-0343-3 position with the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Please read the following eligibility questions very carefully. Your responses will affect your consideration for the position. This vacancy announcement is listed in accordance with Merit Promotion procedures. This means that only specific groups of applicants are eligible for consideration. The following questions will determine if you are within any of these specific groups eligible for consideration under this vacancy announcement. You will only be considered for each eligibility you respond "YES". If you respond "NO" to all eligibility questions or fail to claim at least one eligibility, you will not be considered under this vacancy announcement.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the statement that describes how you meet the specialized experience for the Management & Program Analyst, PT-0343-III position. Select one response.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the next lower pay band/grade level (PT-II/PE-IIA/MS-I/GS-13 or equivalent) in the Federal Service which includes performing the following duties: experience serving as a member of a team and/or engagement tasked with identifying and implementing process improvement, tracking activities or projects that provide services to the agency, and/or implementing project management techniques to complete assignments. Do you have this experience?
 I do not have the specialized experience described above.


2.
Select ALL the answers that best describe your experience and background working collaboratively with teams or individuals with different backgrounds, levels of experience, positions within the organization, and areas of expertise.
 A. I have experience impartially guiding discussions among stakeholders, using a variety of facilitation approaches and interpersonal skills to build consensus on important questions.
 B. I routinely work as part of a team (or teams) possessing varying levels of experience and abilities—including high-level leaders and managers—using interpersonal and communication skills to obtain buy-in for my ideas.
 C. I have experience working collaboratively with others in an academic, professional, or other environment in which each of us was ultimately responsible for the quality of our own work.
 D. None of the above


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience of using techniques for identifying, gathering, and analyzing data, forming conclusions consistent with management and program goals, recommending solutions to problems and implementing changes to plans.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not performed it on the job.
 I have no experience performing this task.


4.
Select the response that reflects your highest level of experience performing qualitative and/or quantitative analysis to evaluate risks, compliance and/or effectiveness of a program. Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have conducted evaluative studies to determine compliance and/or the effectiveness and efficiency of a program.
 I have evaluated compliance or the effectiveness and efficiency of a program using a wide range of qualitative and/or quantitative analyses but have not yet used the analysis to make recommendations
 I have performed a wide range of qualitative and/or quantitative analyses to recommend compliance and/or program improvement initiatives to management officials
 I do not have experience performing any qualitative and/or quantitative analysis to evaluate compliance or improve the effectiveness and efficiency of a program.


5.
Describe your experience with applying project management techniques (select all that apply).
 A. I have created and executed a project plan for a project.
 B. I have estimated resources needed (dollars and/or people) for a project and monitored and managed resource changes during a project.
 C. I have assessed and managed risks for a project.
 D. I have practiced agile management on a project.
 E. I have not had any of these experiences.


6.
Select the answer that best describes your experience to analyze virtual learning system requirements to support and improve instructor-led virtual learning delivery and develop and implement policies and procedures for on-going virtual learning administration and maintenance.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have no experience performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not performed it on the job.


7.
Select the best response describes your experience conveying and presenting information to others, including interested parties from other organizations, co-workers, and managers.
 I have facilitated consensus making with multiple parties toward a single goal.
 I have presented oral arguments designed to convince other to adopt my position.
 I have briefed people unfamiliar with the subject program requirement and changes.
 I have explained specialized or technical information to individuals or groups with varying backgrounds.
 I have not done any of above. or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


8.
Written communications skills are integral to the work of this position. Please select the statement that best describes your experience.
 I have experience assisting in the preparation of written products including procedures, reports, and/or responses to inquiries.
 I have experience preparing a variety of written products including policies, procedures, reports, training materials and/or routine correspondence.
 I have experience independently preparing a wide range of written technical products such as policies, procedures, reports, training material, content for intranet resources and external correspondence.
 I do not have any of the experience described above.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information in and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated
 Yes, I certify my application is accurate, complete and submitted in good faith.
 No, I do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙