Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
DE-12792782-25-TGM Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2025 to Sep 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Assessment 1
Carefully read the statement and answer before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



1.
To be considered for this position, you must be an Honors Program graduate.

Are you a 2024 applicant to the Attorney General's Honors Program at the U.S. Department of Justice for entry-level attorneys who received an offer that was rescinded in January 2025?
 Yes, I am a 2024 Honors Program applicant and my offer was rescinded in January 2025.
 No, I am not a 2024 Honors Program applicant with a rescinded offer.


2.
To qualify for the GS-11 level, you must have a J.D. (or equivalent law degree). Do you have a J.D. (or equivalent law degree) to qualify for the GS-11 level?
 Yes, I do have a J.D.
 No, I do not have a J.D.


3.
To qualify for the GS-12 level, you must have at least one (1) year of post-law school full-time judicial clerkship or qualifying legal fellowship experience; or one (1) year of post-law school full-time graduate law study (LL.M. or equivalent). Do you meet one of these requirements to qualify for the GS-12 level?
 Yes, I meet the minimum requirements.
 No, I do not meet the minimum requirements.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).
 I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙