Position Title
FLIGHT OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12767356-AR-25-138 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 19, 2025 to Aug 02, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (AASF #1) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (AASF #1) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E3-E7)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-08 Flight Operations Specialist.
 I HAVE 1) experience, education, or training interpreting, explaining, and/or applying basic rules, regulations, policies, and procedures of a transportation program and 2) experience using computer and automation systems
 I DO NOT HAVE the above experience, education, or training.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-08 Flight Operations Specialist.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience, education, or training 1) arranging and interpreting directives and regulations governing transportation of personnel, cargo or freight, 2) experience applying directives and regulations governing transportation of personnel, cargo or freight, 3) experience verifying legal entitlements or official authorizations for travel, securing from carriers guides and timetables, information regarding schedules, fares, and availability of space accommodations, and 4) experience planning and organizing the work of others..
 I DO NOT have the 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙