Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Payroll/Processing)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCJD-26-12913311-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-7 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Human Resources Specialist position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Which of the following statements describe the payroll and processing activities that you have independently performed on a regular and recurring basis? (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have experience setting pay.
 B. I have experience processing personnel actions.
 C. I have experience providing advisory and technical services to management on substantive payroll and processing issues.
 D. I have experience preparing and processing correction packages in payroll system for personnel actions.
 E. I have experience applying procedures and regulations of payroll, processing, and leave administration and using the National Finance Center (NFC) payroll system.
 F. I have experience researching and analyzing Federal personnel regulations, policies, and procedures to identify payroll, processing and leave administration problems.
 G. I have experience applying HR methods, principles, and evaluative methods to resolve moderate to complex payroll problems.
 H. None of the above.


3.
Select the federal Personnel/Payroll and talent management systems with which you are proficient. (Select all that apply).
 A. WebTV
 B. EPIC
 C. E-OPF
 D. HR Connect
 E. EmpowHR
 F. ABCO
 G. NFC Reporting Center
 H. SPSS
 I. E-Verify
 J. USAStaffing
 K. Another Federal personnel/pay system
 L. None of the above


4.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience in processing personnel actions.
 I code a variety of appointment actions, reassignments, and separation actions, including setting pay, for excepted service and competitive service, professional positions, and wage grade positions, referring to several regulations to ensure regulatory compliance. I am consulted by others for assistance in more complex actions.
 I code a variety of personnel actions and pay actions for similar positions. The actions are recurring in nature. I research actions with which I am not familiar and ask for assistance upon occasion.
 I have received training in processing personnel actions but have had limited experience.
 I do not have the experience or training described above.


5.
Select each personnel action for which you have verified their content for regulatory compliance. (Select all that apply)
 A. Career and Career-Conditional Appointments in the Competitive Service
 B. Non-status Appointments in the Competitive Service
 C. Excepted Service Appointments
 D. Promotions
 E. Changes to Lower Grades
 F. Reassignments
 G. Details
 H. Realignments
 I. Separations
 J. None of the above


6.
From the list below, select the automated human capital system(s) you have utilized to support payroll and personnel action processing. Select all that apply.
 A. National Finance Center
 B. Entry, Processing, Inquiry, and Correction (EPIC)
 C. Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF)
 D. National Finance Center SPPS (Special Payroll Processing System)
 E. Other Human Capital processing/payroll systems
 F. None of the above


7.
From the following responses please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience:
 I have experience answering questions from managers and employees on a variety of Payroll and Processing issues and have assisted with outreach presentations.
 I have experience answering questions from managers and employees on a variety of Payroll and Processing issues.
 I have completed classroom and/or on the job training on Payroll and Processing systems and provided customer service to employees.
 I completed classroom and/or on the job training on Payroll and Processing systems and provided customer service to employees with supervision.
 None of the above.


8.
Which of the following statements best represents your highest level of experience in routinely interacting with various groups and individuals?
 I have experience working with Executive level management to resolve issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving.
 I have experience working with upper management to resolve issues and problems that arise on a regular basis.
 I have experience working with managers and management officials to resolve issues and problems.
 I have experience working with co-workers to resolve issues.
 None of the above.


9.
Which of the following statements describe your experience in presenting orally technical HR information to others? (Select all that apply.)
 A. have experience providing oral briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis.
 B. I have experience coordinating meetings or workshops.
 C. I have experience delivering presentations to groups at work.
 D. Successful completion of college-level speech course(s) (Toastmasters, etc.).
 E. I have experience instructing others (i.e. teach a class, provide one-on-one instruction).
 F. I have experience conducting new employee orientation.
 G. Experience in oral communication has been recognized as highly successful, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 H. I have experience responding to telephone requests from co-workers, managers, or customers both inside and outside of the organization.
 I. I have experience acting as point of contact to provide information to other agencies on various Human Resources questions (e.g., providing Preliminary Employment Data SF-75).
 J. I have experience providing Employment Verification.
 K. I have received an award for my customer service skills.
 L. None of the above.


10.
I have provided counseling to employees, supervisors and/or dependents on regulations,
procedures, and eligibility determinations in the following areas: (Select all that apply.)
 A. Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB)
 B. Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI)
 C. Thrift Saving Plan (TSP)
 D. Long Term Care (LTC)counts (FSA)
 E. Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA)
 F. Office of Workers’ Compensation (OWCP)
 G. Rights under USERRA
 H. None of the above


11.
From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely
and successfully applied at work. (Check all that apply.)
 A. Write clearly, logically, concisely, and persuasively for varied audiences.
 B. Draft reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials.
 C. Draft policy and procedural materials for dissemination to employees.
 D. Explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings or recommendations.
 E. Review documents, correspondence and reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 F. None of the above.


12.
I have provided technical assistance to managers and employees in the following Human
Resources specialty area(s): (Select all that apply.)
 A. HR Information Systems, including payroll, personnel, and reporting systems
 B. Leave Programs, including military reservist differential, restored leave, etc.
 C. Leave audits
 D. Full range of benefits
 E. Pay and Compensation
 F. Back pay cases
 G. Background investigation program
 H. None of the above


13.
Which of the following source material(s) listed below have you routinely utilized when
researching Human Resources policies, procedures, and practices? (Select all that apply.)
 A. US Office of Personnel Management Guide to Processing Personnel Actions
 B. Code of Federal Regulations (Title 5 CFR)
 C. US Office of Personnel Management website
 D. Executive Orders
 E. Comptrollers General Decisions
 F. Guide to Personnel Recordkeeping
 G. HR Connect User Guide
 H. NFC Bulletins
 I. OPM bulletins, directives and/or publications
 J. None of the above


14.
Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience on solving
problems and issues.
 I have experience independently analyzing, researching, and solving problems and issued raised by executives, managers, and employees. Solutions are provided verbally and in writing.
 I have experience working with executives, managers, and employees to solve problems and issues. Solutions are communicated to others verbally and in writing.
 I have experience working with managers and employees to solve problems and issues.
 I have experience working with employees to solve problems and issues.
 None of the above.


15.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience related to the
collection, organization and/or tracking of information in support of a federal Background
Investigation Program.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


16.
Which statement best describes your experience working with applicants who may be
experiencing difficulties with completion of electronic forms related to the background screening process.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


17.
Identify the program areas in which you consider yourself to be a subject matter expert.
(Select all that apply.)
 A. Life Insurance
 B. Health Insurance
 C. Thrift Savings Plan
 D. Long-Term Health Care or Flexible Spending Accounts
 E. Leave Programs to Include: FMLA, FFLA, and Voluntary Leave Transfer Programs
 F. Annual/ Sick Leave
 G. Background Investigation Program
 H. Use of Electronic Questionnaires for Investigation Processing (e-QIP)
 I. Use of the National Finance Center Payroll system
 J. Use of Security Entry & Tracking System (SETS)f
 K. Conduct E-Verify
 L. Use of OPM Portal
 M. None of the above


18.
Select all topics in which you have provided guidance to others as a subject matter expert?
(Check all that apply.)
 A. Executive Orders related to personnel security.
 B. Personnel security directives or policies.
 C. Assisting employees on the electronic background investigation process.
 D. Reviewing adjudicative decisions.
 E. None of the above


19.
Select duties below that reflect your experience with Personnel Security and Suitability
(Check all that apply.)
 A. I have entered and maintained federal background investigative information and security clearance information into an agency/company database of record.
 B. I have performed the duties of the "Reviewer" using the Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) system to detect errors or omissions in information prior to releasing to OPM or adjudication facility for investigation or adjudication.
 C. I have performed quality control duties related to personnel security or suitability to ensure accuracy and uniformity between documents and taken action to correct inaccuracies or resolve gaps in required information.0
 D. I have used OPM's Central Verification System (CVS) to verify investigative and adjudicative records related to personnel security or suitability.
 E. I have established controls and logs to monitor and track administrative correspondence and assignments to ensure time sensitive deadlines were met.
 F. None of the above


20.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙