Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist - Evening (Night)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12996377-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfather Provision. A Clinical Laboratory Scientist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/03/2024) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may NOT be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0644-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States? (Non-citizens may be appointed only when it is not possible to recruit qualified U.S. citizens, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).)
 Yes, I am a citizen of the United States.
 No, I am not a U.S. citizen
 I am not a U.S. citizen, but I am eligible for appointment under 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a) if qualified U.S. citizens are not available.


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f), candidates for this occupation must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Do you meet the English language proficiency requirement?
 Yes, I am proficient in both spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in spoken and/or written English.


3.
Education Requirement 
Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?

Note: Transcripts are required. If you do not provide transcripts, you will be rated ineligible and screened out.
 Yes, I possess a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university.
 Yes, I possess a master’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
 No, I do not have a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
 No, I do NOT currently possess a certification listed above. However, I meet the conditions for Exception to Certification to be given a Temporary Appointment not to exceed 2 years while I actively work towards obtaining Certification.


4.
Certification Requirement 
Do you meet one of the required certification or eligibility options listed below?

Acceptable Certifications:- Generalist certification as an MLS from ASCP BOC or AMT.
- Generalist certification as an MT from ASCP BOR or AMT
.- Categorical or Specialist certification from ASCP or AMT.

Note: Categorical or specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or for lab sections unrelated to the certification held.

Exception for Non-Certified Applicants:Applicants who do not currently hold a valid certification may be considered for a temporary, entry-level appointment if they meet one of the eligibility routes to sit for the MLS certification exam (ASCP BOC or AMT) and will be required to actively work toward certification upon appointment.

Grandfathering Provision for Current VHA Employees:Current VHA employees who were in this occupation on the effective date of the qualification standard and meet the criteria for grandfathering may be considered to have met all certification requirements for the grade/assignment held. Those employees should contact HR for documentation guidance.

 I hold a valid MLS generalist certification from ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I hold a valid MT generalist certification from ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I hold a categorical or specialist certification from ASCP or AMT that is applicable to the position I am applying for.
 I do not currently hold certification, but I meet an eligibility route to take the MLS certification exam (ASCP BOC or AMT) and understand I may be considered for a temporary appointment while I work toward certification.
 I do not hold certification and do not meet eligibility requirements to take the MLS certification exam.
 I am a current VHA employee who may qualify under the Grandfathering Provision and will contact HR for documentation guidance.


5.

Grade Determination - Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11
To qualify for the GS-11 grade level, candidates must meet ALL of the following criteria:

Experience or Education (must meet one):
- One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09).
OR
- Three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, 
OR
-  a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (must demonstrate all):- Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories supporting independent work.- Knowledge of laboratory quality control, quality assurance, and performance improvement principles.- Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.- Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair laboratory instrumentation.- Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.- Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.- Ability to communicate, consult, and interact effectively with the health care team, external partners, and patients.

Assignment Description
GS-11 represents the full performance level (FPL) for a CLS. Employees at this level independently manage day-to-day lab operations; perform, evaluate, interpret, and correlate laboratory procedures; ensure test accuracy; conduct quality control; perform maintenance and troubleshooting; correlate abnormal findings with disease states; and may take on specialty responsibilities such as safety officer, analyzer specialist, supply control, competency coordinator, or proficiency testing coordinator. Work requires broad independent judgment and minimal supervision.

 Yes, I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and can demonstrate all required KSAs.
 Yes, I have three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D./doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science, and I can demonstrate all required KSAs.
 I am a current VHA employee who may qualify under the Grandfathering Provision and will contact HR for documentation guidance.
 No, I do not meet the requirements for the GS-11 grade level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


SF-50 Reminder: Current, permanent federal employees must submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


RESUME REMINDER - You must provide a complete application package which includes: Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title and Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Your full resume may be uploaded without page limitation into the 'Other' document uploaded field.
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration (if applicable)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙