Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician - Gastroenterology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12956096-26-TW Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Medical Instrument Technician - Gastroenterology  vacancy with the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G27, requires that applicants meet the following basic requirements.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS:

The following are the basic requirements for appointment as a Medical Instrument Technician - Gastroenterology in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Education.

There are no specific educational requirements for this occupation. Education may be substituted for experience only at the GS-4 and GS-5 levels. See the grade requirements part of this standard for information regarding educational substitutions.


Licensure or Certification.

Licensure or Certification is not required for this occupation; however, it is strongly desirable at GS-6 or above as evidence of possession of the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities.

For certain functional areas at the higher levels or supervisory assignments, specific certifications appropriate to the specialty are indicated in this standard under "Titles and Certification/Registrations".

For all specialties identified in this standard, Basic and Advanced Cardiac Life Support certifications are desirable. Training which does not result in official certification does not meet this definition.


Physical Requirements.

The incumbent will be required to do the following:

Duties regularly require providing manual assistance in lifting and positioning patients, most of which are in varying stages of unconsciousness. There are extensive periods of regular and recurring standing, walking, bending, lifting, pushing, reaching, and prolonged stretching to provide easy accessibility of instruments and supplies for the endoscopist.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency.

Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.


Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No



GRADE REQUIREMENTS:

For purposes of this qualification standard the specialty areas of this occupation have been grouped into [seven] functional areas.

Gastroenterology (GI)

Technicians assist the practitioner in endoscopic procedures, such as esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), colonoscopy, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and endoscopic ultrasound. The technicians ensure proper performance of equipment, set up equipment, and reprocess endoscopic reusable medical equipment (RME). Certification is offered by the Society of Gastroenterology Nurses and Associates (SGNA) for level one and level two training. GI endoscope reprocessing certification is offered through the Certification Board of Sterile Processing and Distribution (CBSPD).


GRADE DETERMINATIONS:

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the criteria discussed in the applicable headings, or that defined in the appendices, must be met when determining the grade of candidates. Education/Training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Gastroenterology (GI) Technician

(1) GS-6

(a) Experience. At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled.

In addition, you must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

1. Ability to set up endoscopy equipment, ensuring endoscopes and ancillary equipment functions properly.

2. Ability to aid the physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).

3. Knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy in order to assist practitioner with routine standardized gastroenterology procedures.

4. Ability to interact with patients explaining procedures and positioning the patient for the procedure, recognizing disabilities or impaired mobility and assisting the patient as necessary.

5. Ability to reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME), following approved Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and universal precautions.

6. Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.

7. Ability to manually clean and disinfect non-critical reusable equipment and surfaces, dispose of one- time-use equipment and trash per facility policy, and restock supplies such as linens, suction equipment, and cleaning products.

(c) Certification. No certification is required; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have Basic Life Support (BLS) certification.

(d) Assignment.

Technicians at this level aid the staff with procedures which are routine and standardized in nature. They explain the procedure to the patient to secure the patient's confidence and cooperation; position patients for procedures; and restock linen and consumable supplies. They set-up, clean, and ensure proper performance of the endoscopic equipment; and prepare the procedure rooms for turn-over, adhering to universal precautions and SOPs. The technician logs procedure and reprocessing data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policy. Assignments at this level require knowledge of basic medical terminology as well as common gastrointestinal anatomy.

Do you meet the above requirements for the GS-06 Medical Instrument Technician - Gastroenterology position?

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-7 GI Technician (Full Performance Level)

(a) Experience.

At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of proper performance of endoscopic equipment and procedures.

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

1. Knowledge of endoscopic equipment and use in basic and complex endoscopic  procedures.

2. Knowledge of anatomy and physiology related to the GI system, with ability to recognize and report obvious abnormalities during procedures.

3. Ability to assist physician with specialized, complex procedures such as Dilation, Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography (ECRP), Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS), and Endoscopic Mucosal Resection (ESR)..

4. Knowledge of universal precautions and disinfection techniques and ability to follow SOP's to clean reusable medical equipment (RME).

5. Ability to collaborate, communicate, and demonstrate customer service skills and interpersonal skills with all healthcare professionals to ensure quality and continuity of care.

6. Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.

7. Ability to deliver patient care, including vital sign measurements and medication administration.

8. Ability to perform basic supply management including restocking of endoscopy room supplies and to communicate with the logistics team.

(c) Certification. No certification is required; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have BLS certification.

(d) Assignment.

This represents the full performance level. Technicians at this level function with minimal instruction, assisting the staff with complex specialized procedures such as ERCP and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). They are proficient with GI endoscopic equipment and ensure proper performance of endoscopic equipment; select alternate equipment or adjust equipment settings to accommodate patient needs and produce high quality technique. They collect, process, and label all specimens; train other technicians in basic endoscopic procedures; work in and outside the GI unit offering technician support during emergent and on-call endoscopic cases; and assist the nurse in patient care duties such as obtaining vital signs, dressing and documenting all pertinent information in the patient's records. They inventory and maintain par levels of specialty equipment for the endoscopy unit.

Do you meet the above requirements for the GS-07 Medical Instrument Technician - Gastroenterology position?

NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in resume and supporting documentation.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙