Position Title
Regional Criminal Investigator (Export Control) Officer
Agency
Commerce, International Trade Administration
Announcement Number
BIS-ST-26-12969979 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 23, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Paris, France
 B. Panama City, Panama
 C. Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
 D. Johannesburg, South Africa
 E. Seoul, South Korea


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Please select the response that best describes how your experience and/or education meets the minimum qualifications for a Regional Criminal Investigator (Export Control) Officer position at the FP-02 level.
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select one response that best describes your experience assisting with criminal investigations.
 I have education or training in reviewing and appraising complaints and allegations of violations of laws pertaining to criminal investigations and knowledge of appropriate investigative actions.
 I have experience assisting with reviewing and appraising complaints and allegations of violations oflaws pertaining to criminal investigations and have assisted with appropriate investigative actions. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have experience independently reviewing and appraising complaints and allegations of violations of laws or regulations pertaining to criminal investigations and appropriately utilizing investigative actions normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have experience independently reviewing and appraising complaints and allegations of violations of law pertaining to criminal investigations and appropriately utilizing investigative actions. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 None of the above.


3.
Please describe your training/experience in response to the question above. {Note, you will be disqualified if you cut/paste information from your resume or provide duplicate responses to different questions}.


4.
Please select the response(s) that describe your experience assisting in interviews, interrogation of witnesses and suspects in an investigation. (Select all that apply).
 A. I have participated in criminal investigations including interviews with suspects, witnesses, informants, and other law enforcement agents.
 B. I have collaborated with agents, suspects, witnesses, and informants where the need existed to read or translate other languages.
 C. I have coordinated investigations involving multiple agencies that involved conducting interviews and interrogations of witnesses and suspects.
 D. I have conducted criminal investigations including interviews with suspects, witnesses, informants, and other law enforcement agents.
 E. None of the above.


5.
Please describe your training/experience in response to the question above. {Note, you will be disqualified if you cut/paste information from your resume or provide duplicate responses to different questions}.


6.
Please select the response(s) that describe your experience supporting the review and collection of information ensuring legality of investigative methods used to collect evidence. (Select all that apply).
 A. I have experience reviewing information collected by others.
 B. I have experience determining what information is needed to further an investigation and employing effective methods to collect the information needed.
 C. I have experience coordinating the collection of information or intelligence.
 D. I have experience preparing detailed written reports that clearly summarize information collected.
 E. None of the above.


7.
Please describe your training/experience in response to the question above. {Note, you will be disqualified if you cut/paste information from your resume or provide duplicate responses to different questions}.


8.
Please select one response that best describes your experience ensuring compliance with U.S. laws and regulations while conducting investigative matters.
 I have explained regulations and provided background information for an investigation.
 I have instructed, advised, and/or participated in investigations while building a rapport and establishing credibility with other law enforcement agencies.
 I have worked with internal and external representatives to resolve issues and problems that frequently arise during investigations.
 I have assisted law enforcement officers by gathering documents required for the administrative paperwork.
 None or the above.


9.
Please describe your training/experience in response to the question above. {Note, you will be disqualified if you cut/paste information from your resume or provide duplicate responses to different questions}.


10.
Please select the response(s) that describe your experience assisting in preparing documents for a law enforcement organization. (Select all that apply).
 A. I have prepared criminal investigation reports and communicated the findings.
 B. I have written affidavits pertaining to criminal investigations.
 C. I have written summaries of criminal investigation interviews.
 D. I prepared briefing papers and memorandums for criminal investigations.
 E. None of the above.


11.
Please indicate where on your resume the experience can be found to the question above. {NOTE: your response will be disqualified if you state "see resume"} [REF] 163075


12.
Please select the response( s) that describe your experience assisting in writing search warrant affidavits and participating in the execution of search warrants. (Select all that apply).
 A. I have participated in the execution of search and seizures.
 B. I have assisted in writing and preparing search warrant affidavits for presentation to a Judge or United States Magistrate.
 C. I have been the affiant on search warrants.
 D. I have assisted in gathering information for search warrants.
 E. None of the above.


13.
Please indicate where on your resume the experience can be found to the question above. {NOTE: your response will be disqualified if you state "see resume"} [REF] 163076


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


14.
Please select one response that describes your experience establishing and maintaining rapport with witnesses to create a cooperative environment conducive to obtaining information for case investigation.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


15.
Please indicate where on your resume the experience can be found to the question above. {NOTE: your response will be disqualified if you state "see resume"} [REF] 163077


16.
Please select one response that best describes your experience coordinating with other law enforcement/intelligence agencies in specific cases under investigation where criminal investigative services of these agencies are required to conduct a joint investigation.
 I have coordinated criminal investigative findings with other law enforcement agencies in preparation and prosecution of administrative proceedings and/or criminal prosecutions arising from joint investigations conducted.
 I have established and maintained cooperative working arrangements and relationships with other law enforcement agencies, with regard to specific cases under investigation where criminal investigative services of these agencies are required in the conduct of joint investigations.
 I have planned and outlined in detail and type, the extent of assistance required from other law enforcement agencies for joint investigations, and maintained constant contact for the coordination of results.
 None of the above.


17.
Please indicate where on your resume the experience can be found to the question above. {NOTE: your response will be disqualified if you state "see resume"} [REF] 163078


18.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify.


19.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for.  You must choose at least one.
 A. Paris, France
 B. Seoul, South Korea
 C. Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
 D. Panama City, Panama
 E. Johannesburg, South Africa
 F. All of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙