Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12922423-26-PJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Please select the best response to the question(s).


Time-in-Grade Restriction: Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 and your latest Within Grade Increase or Promotion SF-50 as well. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply. The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG). Without these, we are unable to verify the requirement, and you could be deemed unqualified for Time-in-Grade or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you). For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-05 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-07 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation (SF-50s Required).


Minimum Qualification Requirements: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience required for the position. Your resume and supporting documentation must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service.

Specialized experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Analyzing all documentation and verifying its authenticity, as well as whether the documentation meets legal requirements to be accepted as evidence; Experience with Microsoft word, PowerPoint, excel; Ensuring timely and appropriate measures are taken throughout data collection, and data entry process; Communicates with management in regard to escalated problems and feedback on process improvements; Prepares, composes, and reviews correspondence for the purpose of obtaining or supplying information to internal as well as external customers ~OR~
Education (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess 1 full year of graduate level education or Superior Academic Achievement (SAA)* at the baccalaureate level, if related? Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. *Superior Academic Achievement at the GS-7 level: SAA at the baccalaureate level in the coursework detailed below is fully qualifying. Applicants who wish to apply under this provision must submit proof from their educational institution that they meet one of the criteria listed below. To qualify for SAA, applicants must have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled and meet one of the following: (1) Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university or major subdivision. (2) A grade-point average of "B" (a GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. (3) A grade point average of "B+" (a GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study. (4) Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies ~OR~
Combination of Education and Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience directly related to the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) position, which may be substituted to meet the experience requirements for GS-07 position?

ALL APPLICANTS Critical Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have at least 52 weeks one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level. Failure to provide the required information on your resume to accurately assess your experience may result in you being deemed unqualified for this position. Information on building federal resumes can be found at https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


1.
GS-07: Minimum Qualification Requirements: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your experience and/or level of education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) at the GS-07 grade level.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I possess 1 full year of graduate level education or Superior Academic Achievement (SAA)* at the baccalaureate level, if related? Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess equivalent combination of specialized experience directly related to the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) and successfully completed 1 full year of graduate education or Superior Academic Achievement (SAA)* at the baccalaureate level that demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of this position, which may be substituted to meet the specialized experience requirements for GS-07 position. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


Time-in-Grade Restriction: Current Federal Employees Critical Note: Please provide your most recent SF-50 and your latest Within Grade Increase or Promotion SF-50 as well. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply. The latest WIGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify Time in Grade (TIG). Without these, we are unable to verify the requirement, and you could be deemed unqualified for Time-in-Grade or not providing the proper documentation for us to do so. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you). For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-07 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-09 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation (SF-50s Required).


Minimum Qualification Requirements: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience required for the position. Your resume and supporting documentation must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service.

Specialized experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Ensuring validation of Social Security information received by veterans, spouses and/or dependents prior to processing income matching; Researching past transactions, cases or events, or research alternative sources of information involving conflicts or inconsistencies; Ensuring timely and appropriate measures are taken throughout data collection, and data entry process; Providing data and training suggestions to training staff and assists them with developing training for the department and/or the field; Demonstrating knowledge of the rules of evidence and skills necessary to evaluate the adequacy and/or admissibility of evidence to request additional data or further investigation in the income verification process ~OR~
Education (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related? Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work ~OR~
Combination of Education and Experience (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Do you possess equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience directly related to the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation), which may be substituted to meet the experience requirements for GS-09 position?

ALL APPLICANTS Critical Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume. You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have at least 52 weeks one (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level. Failure to provide the required information on your resume to accurately assess your experience may result in you being deemed unqualified for this position. Information on building federal resumes can be found at https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


2.
GS-09: Minimum Qualification Requirements: Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your experience and/or level of education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) at the GS-09 grade level.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess equivalent combination of specialized experience directly related to the work of the Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation) and successfully completed graduate education that demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of this position, which may be substituted to meet the specialized experience requirements for GS-09 position. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙