Position Title
Staff Assistant
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13042414M-HCN-0301-12 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


12.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the HCO - Human Capital Office business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.

GS-12 LEVEL: You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience acquiring, validating, and analyzing information, drawing conclusions, forecasting work, and developing alternatives.
Experience with operating programs and the interrelationships among them to perform program analysis.
Experience collaborating with top level executives and taxpayers to establish and maintain effective relationships and gain confidence and cooperation.
Experience with written and oral communication techniques sufficient to prepare and present findings and recommendations, carry out specific action regarding controversial issues, and develop material for use in public speaking engagements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Do you have one (1) year of experience acquiring, validating, and analyzing information, drawing conclusions, forecasting work, and developing alternatives?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one (1) year of experience with operating programs and the interrelationships among them to perform program analysis?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one (1) year of experience collaborating with top level executives and taxpayers to establish and maintain effective relationships and gain confidence and cooperation?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one (1) year of experience with written and oral communication techniques sufficient to prepare and present findings and recommendations, carry out specific actions regarding controversial issues, and develop material for use in public speaking engagements?
 Yes
 No


5.
Which of the following best describes your experience creating and maintaining professional relationships with management?
 Maintaining ongoing relationships with all levels management to discuss initiatives.
 Facilitating meetings between IRS and key stakeholders to ensure project success.
 Communicating in person and by phone with all level stakeholders to accomplish project tasks.
 Preparing written communication (e.g., email, letter) to management.
 None of the above


6.
Which of the following describes your administrative management experience?
 A. Independently researched and responded to customer inquiries.
 B. Independently searched files, documents, records and other sources for information.
 C. Utilized software and office equipment to create, edit, print, retrieve, or manipulate files.
 D. Scheduled and arranged meetings and conferences.
 E. None of the above


7.
What have you done to promote team work in your office?
 A. I volunteer to assist co-workers with their projects.
 B. I tell co-workers that they are doing an excellent job and praise them for their work.
 C. I coordinate all employee meetings, conference calls and other group events.
 D. None of the above


8.
Which statement(s) describe your experience in learning new software applications?
 A. I have learned new software applications through classroom training.
 B. I have learned new software applications through on-line training courses.
 C. I have learned new software applications by reading instructional memos.
 D. I have learned new software application by using the software.
 E. None of the above


9.
Which statement best describes your experience analyzing data or information?
 I summarize data and information and forward it for review.
 I summarize and analyze data and information to determine next steps.
 I summarize and analyze data and information as well as research records, databases and other resources to resolve issues and problems.
 None of the above


10.
Which of the following have you done when determining the activities required to complete a task or request?
 A. I have analyzed, defined, and researched requirements to complete the task or request.
 B. I have received requirements, and researched additional documentation to complete the task or request.
 C. None of the above


11.
Which statement best describes your experience in setting clear and specific goals and priorities for your work?
 I follow a daily schedule prepared by my supervisor.
 I set general goals and priorities for specific tasks and assignments.
 I set priorities for my work, consulting with my supervisor only when competing priorities arise.
 None of the above


12.
Please indicate your experience managing your workload.
 A. Working remotely with little supervision
 B. Delivering high-quality work while meeting deadlines in a timely fashion
 C. Monitoring and tracking projects and programs
 D. Working on multiple projects at one time
 E. None of the above


13.
In which of the following areas of office administration and management do you have experience?
 A. Interpreting and applying regulations dealing with the distribution, tracking, and security of accountable items (such as computers and key cards).
 B. Interpreting and applying regulations dealing with records management.
 C. Tracking office expenses, such as office supplies or the travel and training budget.
 D. Monitored contracts for office equipment such as copiers, fax machines, and shredders.
 E. Purchase Card holder for an office.
 F. Gathering information to assist in developing contract documents (such as a Statement of Work or conducting a Market Research/Cost Comparison).
 G. Reviewing or approving travel documents and ensuring adherence to travel policies and regulations.
 H. None of the above


14.
Which one of the following indicates your highest level of experience analyzing program data and providing solutions?
 Analyzed administrative program data, utilized different methods to assess program effectiveness and researched problems presented by management.
 Analyzed and evaluated facts. I interpreted the results and developed solutions.
 Completed analytical reports and presented results to management.
 None of the above.


15.
Which software applications have you used extensively in an office environment?
 A. Excel/Lotus
 B. Word/WordPerfect
 C. PowerPoint
 D. Office-wide travel management system
 E. Integrated Financial System (IFS)/other financial tracking database
 F. Requisition Tracking System (RTS)/other procurement tracking system
 G. HR Connect/other personnel tracking database
 H. Time keeping software
 I. None of the above


16.
Which of the following best describes your experience in overseeing office administrative programs?
 Working in a position that required me to be the key resource for the office in overseeing multiple administrative areas such as the office budget, procurement, and travel.
 Working in a position where I was principally responsible for one administrative area such as the office budget, procurement, or travel.
 Responsible for the administrative functions of the personnel I support.
 None of the above.


17.
Which of the following best describe(s) your experience responding to time sensitive action items?
 Identified problems and assessed the issues to determine resolution or elevation to meet deadlines.
 Established priorities, set deadlines, and monitored to ensure timely completion.
 Responded to data calls or ad hoc requests for information.
 None of the above.


18.
Which of the following best describes your communication experience?
 Interact with management officials or employees for the purpose of providing advice, guidance, explanations and clarification of administrative regulations, procedures or work processes.
 Communicate policies and procedures with managers or staff members.
 Answer administrative questions from coworkers and my management chain.
 None of the above


19.
Which of the following describes your experience with written communication skills?
 A. Prepared meeting minutes/notes, which I later summarized and distributed as necessary.
 B. Prepared summary notes and suggestions concerning incoming and outgoing correspondence before referral to the supervisor.
 C. Researched and reviewed information from a variety of sources and prepared a summary for the supervisor’s review.
 D. Prepared general, non-technical reports for management.
 E. Prepared emails on behalf of the supervisor to office staff.
 F. None of the above


20.
Which of the following types of documents have you prepared?
 A. Prepared Training Presentations (PowerPoint or Word).
 B. Developed formal Standard Operating Procedures.
 C. Developed Desk Guides/Job Aids.
 D. Prepared written technical and non-technical reports for diverse audiences with varied levels of technical expertise.
 E. Written emails to explain new procedures or changes in procedures to office staff.
 F. Written formal proposals to change procedures or methods that included sections such as a statement of the problem, solution options with pros and cons, and a recommendation.
 G. None of the above


21.
Which of the following human resource management tasks have you performed?
 A. Coordinated space issues for an office (such as finding space for new employees, moves, re-configuring for flexiplace/telework).
 B. Served as a key resource for advice/guidance on one or more aspects of personnel processing (such as onboarding and orientation of new employees, time and attendance).
 C. Led the development of office-wide personnel policies and procedures based on newly introduced regulations.
 D. Maintained files or records containing confidential personnel information such as labor relations records, personnel actions, and/or grievance actions.
 E. Tracked evaluation and promotion/within grade due dates for an office.
 F. Analyzed staffing levels to address workload changes for an office.
 G. Worked to resolve routine payroll and time and attendance issues.
 H. None of the above


22.
Which one of the following indicates your highest level of experience analyzing program data and providing solutions?
 Independently analyzed administrative program data, utilized different methods to assess program effectiveness and researched problems presented by management. I have independently completed the analysis and developed recommendations and solutions.
 Assessed program effectiveness by analyzing and evaluating facts. I have participated in interpreting the results and developing solutions.
 Analyzing information and preparing reports as directed by a supervisor.
 Completed education or training in the use of analytical tools such as Microsoft Excel, but I have not used analytical tools on the job.
 None of the above


23.
Which of the following describe(s) your experience responding to time-sensitive action items?
 A. Identified problems and assessed the issues to determine resolution or elevation to meet deadlines.
 B. Initiated and completed project activities and work products to meet deadlines.
 C. Established priorities, set deadlines, and monitored to ensure timely completion.
 D. Responded to data calls or ad hoc requests for information.
 E. Collected and compiled information for data call responses or ad hoc requests including follow up activities or tasks.
 F. None of the above


24.
Which of the following verbal communication tasks have you performed on the job?
 A. Coordinated needs and procedures with off-site managers or staff members.
 B. Worked with vendors, for example, to clarify discrepancies, gather information, or resolve issues.
 C. Based on my analysis, I have presented information to management-level audiences outlining options and recommendations.
 D. Communicated with management officials or employees for the purpose of providing advice, guidance, explanations and clarification of administrative regulations, procedures or work processes.
 E. None of the above


25.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙