Position Title
Soil Conservationist
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
DE-26-12972065-CAWV-LB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
All US Citizens
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Horton, KS
 B. Anadarko, OK
 C. El Reno, OK
 D. Pawnee, OK


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


Current or Former Federal Employees: Due weight will be given to performance appraisals and awards during the interview/selection process conducted by the hiring manager. If referred, all relevant documents including performance appraisals and awards submitted with your application package will be forwarded to the hiring official for review. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal, please submit an explanation as to why it is unavailable and attach as a document.


3.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP) or equivalent plan to improve my performance.
 Yes, I am on a plan to improve my performance.
 No, I am not on a plan to improve my performance.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references appropriate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


INSTRUCTIONS: For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL GRADES:


1.
From the descriptions below, select the answer that most accurately and specifically describes the education/work experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the Basic Qualification Requirement for Soil Conservationist, GS-0457. Mark only 1 response. Please note that your answer will be verified against the information you provide in your resume and application. (You must submit a complete, legible copy of your transcripts to document meeting the basic requirement.).

Degree: soil conservation or related agricultural or natural resource discipline such as agronomy, soil science, forestry, agricultural education, or agricultural engineering. The study must have included 30 semester hours in a natural resource or agricultural field, including at least 12 semester hours in a combination of soils and crops or plant science. Of the 12 semester hours, a minimum of 3 semester hours must have been in soils and 3 semester hours in crops or plant science.

OR 

Combination of education and experience: at least 30 semester hours in one or more of the disciplines as shown in A above, including at least 12 semester hours in a combination of soils and crops or plant science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Of the 12 semester hours, a minimum of 3 semester hours must have been in soils and 3 semester hours in crops or plant science.

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study in soil conservation or related agricultural or natural resource discipline such as agronomy, soil science, forestry, agricultural education, or agricultural engineering.
 I do not meet the Basic Requirement as stated above.
 I have a combination of education and experience with at least 30 semester hours in one or more of the disciplines as shown in A above, including at least 12 semester hours in a combination of soils and crops or plant science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Of the 12 semester hours, a minimum of 3 semester hours must have been in soils and 3 semester hours in crops or plant science.


Driving:  Incumbent will be required to operate a government-owned or leased motor vehicle in the performance of duties, therefore, a valid driver's license is required.


2.
Do you possess a valid State Driver's License?
 Yes.
 No.


In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements for Soil Conservationist positions.GS-0457, you must have at least one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the next lower level in the federal service. NOTE: You must submit transcripts as verification of education.


3.
Carefully read the following responses. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for Soil Conservationist GS-0457-05. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in soil conservation or related agricultural or natural resource discipline such as agronomy, soil science, forestry, or agricultural, which qualifies me for a GS-0457-5 Soil Conservationist.
 I do not meet the degree requirement for this position.


4.
Carefully read the following statement of experience AND education. From the descriptions below, select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that satisfies the additional qualifications requirement for the Soil Conservationist GS-0457-07 position.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service (obtained either in the public or private sector). This experience must include the following: provide guidance and assistance in the installation and maintenance of conservation practices and programs; prepare inspection schedules, which include inspection of terraces, stock water ponds, waterways, diversions, drainage, erosion control structures, concrete drops, fencing and prescribed fires for the successful treatment of soil and/or water resources; advise individual tribal members or tribal groups on matters relating to soil and moisture conservation programs for tribal rehabilitation projects.
 I have successfully completed 1 year of graduate level education. 1 year of graduate level education equates to 32 quarter hours or 18 semester hours of graduate education.
 I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study with Superior Academic Achievement gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the Soil Conversationist position based on one of the following: (1) Class Standing-upper third of the graduating class based on completed courses; or (2) Grade-Point Average-maintained a grade-point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on 4 years of education or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (3) Election to membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society - membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education as defined above which equals 100%, i.e., 6 months of specialized experience and 16 quarter or 9 semester hours of graduate level education.
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education as described in the above statements.


5.
Carefully read the following statement of experience AND education. From the descriptions below, select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that satisfies the additional qualifications requirement for the Soil Conservationist GS-0457-09 position.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience or the equivalent, comparable to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service (obtained either in the public or private sector). This experience must include the following: confer with Supervisor and advise individual tribal members or tribal groups on matters relating to soil and moisture conservation programs for tribal rehabilitation projects; assist with activities of State Extension program beneficial to Indian people and their trust properties in the agency area jurisdiction; provide information for Indian owners and lessees on programs for conveying emphasizing the importance of proper land use through conservation practices, participate at committee meetings or general agricultural meetings; conduct an information program for Indian owners and lessees on programs for conveying emphasizing the importance of proper land use through conservation practices; maintain and prepare land use reports; liaison with other agencies on conservation programs.
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree OR I have completed 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to master's degree (36 semester hours, 54 quarter hours or equivalent) in a field directly related to this position.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and graduate education as described in B when combined together meets 100% of the total requirements for the position. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 36. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education as described in the above statements.


6.
Carefully read the following statement of experience AND education. From the descriptions below, select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that satisfies the additional qualifications requirement for the Soil Conserrvationist, GS-0457-11 position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience may include oversee and direct conservation programs; assist management with the development of procedures and policies affecting the land operation program and agency; advise on expenditure of funding for land use program; confer and advise individual tribal members or tribal groups on all matters relating to soil and moisture conservation programs for tribal rehabilitation projects; coordinate activities of State Extension program beneficial to Indian people and their trust properties in the agency area jurisdiction; advise individual tribal members or tribal groups on expenditure of funds for land use programs and improvements that may include terracing, stock water ponds, waterways, diversions, drainage, erosion control structures, concrete drops, fencing and prescribed fires; conduct an information program for Indian owners and lessees on programs for conveying emphasizing the importance of proper land use through conservation practices, talks at committee meetings or general agricultural meetings; maintain contacts with universities / colleges, agricultural stations, private technical organizations and professional and/or scientific organizations for keeping up on the latest developments in the field of soil and moisture conservation, range and wildlife management, oil and gas exploration, vegetative rehabilitation and flood control; prepare and review lease contracts and renewals.
 I have completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field of study that is directly related to the duties of this position.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not have the specialized experience and/or education as described in the above statement.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY:

As previously explained, your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your experience. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Certification of Information Accuracy - If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration from this position.



7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙