Position Title
Staff Psychologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTE-12862302-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Psychologists must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA)?

The specialty area of the degree must be consistent with the assignment for which you will be employed.

Have you successfully completed a professional psychology internship training program that has been accredited by the APA or do you meet one of the exceptions below?

Exceptions:

New VHA psychology internship programs that are in the process of applying for APA accreditation are acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement, provided that such programs were sanctioned by the VHA Central Office Program Director for Psychology and the VHA Central Office of Academic Affiliations at the time you were an intern.VHA facilities who offered full one-year pre-doctoral internships prior to PL 96-151 (pre-1979) are considered to be acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience as a psychologist equivalent to the next lower (GS-12) grade level?

Specialized experience is experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to perform successfully the duties of the position, including: Knowledge of, and ability to apply, advanced professional psychological theories and techniques to the full range of patient populations.Ability to provide professional advice and consultation in areas related to professional psychology and behavioral health.Knowledge of clinical research literature.
 Yes
 No


6.
CERTIFICATION OF UNDERSTANDING: RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY.

Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position. Select Yes or No to the statement below.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I
may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

FINAL INSTRUCTIONS - DOCUMENTS THAT MUST BE SUBMITTED AS PART OF THE APPLICATION PROCESS

Applicants must submit the following documents as part of the application process:

A resume/CV - must include the following information for each job listed: Job Title and Duties (be as detailed as possible), month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008), full-time or part-time (include hours worked per week) and Education (location, degree earned and date awarded) - Required.

VA Form 10-2850c, Application for Associated Health Occupations - must be signed and dated within the last 30 days - Required.

Copy of college transcripts (unofficial or official) - Required.

Copy of license - Required.

Copy of unrestricted driver's license - Required.

If you are claiming veterans' preference, please provide a copy of your DD-214 (We MUST have Member Copy #4 for July 1979 and later editions). If you are claiming 10 point veterans' preference, please submit the Application for 10 Point Veteran Preference (SF-15) with the required documentation. Applicants who are claiming veterans preference and do not submit the proper DD-214 will not be considered for veterans preference.

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your Resume. Be sure that your Resume/CV clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Forms may be obtained from the following web site - http://www.visn2.va.gov/hr/hrforms.asp.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙