Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12948053-26-CT Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Grandfathering Provision. All Clinical Laboratory Scientists (CLS)employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification where applicable. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to the position, the following provisions apply: (1) CLSs may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or be changed to a lower grade within the occupation but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (2) CLSs with an assignment above the full performance level requires an additional certification over and above the basic requirements, employees must meet the assignment-specific requirement before they can be promoted. (3) CLSs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. (4) CLSs who were retained in this occupation under this provision who subsequently leave the occupation, the CLS loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation. (5) CLSs initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain certification that that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: As required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), you must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following:
(1) Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program. OR
(2) The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.

NOTE: Possession of a certification identified in Question 3 below automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.


2.
Basic Requirement: This position requires a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Please provide a copy of your transcripts with your application.

 I have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science or in a related science (e.g., laboratory sciences such as chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.).
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*), and one course in mathematics.
 I do not have a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.


3.
Certification: Please select the following response that best describes your Certification. If you are claiming the exception for being eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency, please select C.

NOTE: You must provide a copy of your certification with your job application.

Exception of Noncertified.
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the full performance level.
Non-Certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.
 I currently possess Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I currently possess the Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I do not currently hold a valid certificate but am actively working towards certification and am eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
 My certification is not reflected in answers A, B, or C above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
For the GS-07: Experience. Candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria

Experience. None beyond the Basic requirement

Do you meet the above Experience requirement stated above?
 Yes
 No


5.
For the GS-09: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

(a) Experience. 1-year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. OR

(b) Education. Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science. AND

In addition to the Experience or Education above, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, & Abilities (KSA)s:

(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
(c) Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
(d) Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
(e) Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
(f) Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Do you meet or exceed the above Experience or Education requirements and demonstrate all KSA's in your resume?
 Yes
 No


6.
For the GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist: Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

(a) Experience. 1-year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07). OR

(b) Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.

In addition to the Experience or Education above, you must demonstrate the following KSAs in your resume?

(a) Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
(c) Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
(d) Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
(e) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
(f) Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(g) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

Do you meet or exceed the above Experience or Education requirements and demonstrate all KSA's in your resume?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title
Duties (Be as detailed as possible.)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: Transcript(s) must be submitted if education is used to meet any requirement. Conferral of degrees earned should be present on transcript(s). Unofficial transcript(s) are acceptable.

CERTIFICATION REMINDER: You must submit a copy of your Certification listed with your application.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙