Position Title
Human Resources Specialist ( Accountability and Development)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ST-13027196-26-RC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit documentation showing 1) your spouse's active-duty status and 2) your marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage certificate or other legal documentation verifying marriage).
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


4.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who:
Has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND
Has not held the grade level of the position being advertised AND/OR
Has not held the promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.
To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your organization.

Please do not submit an award SF-50.


 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who has:
held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; AND
held the target grade level of the position being advertised; OR
held the promotion potential to the target grade level of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, your organization, and your full performance level.  Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1."  Please do not submit an award SF-50.

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current Federal employee applying to transfer?
To apply under Merit Promotion as a Transfer or Reassignment, you must be a current Federal employee serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service, at the next lower grade (or higher) to the lowest grade being advertised for this announcement.  To verify your transfer eligibility you must submit your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) which shows your appointment type, service, and the agency you were employed by.

To learn more, see the USAJOBS' Federal Employees page.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you claiming eligibility based on an OPM interchange agreement or other special authority?

You may be eligible under a special authority if you are a:

Former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System.
Former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff.
Former incumbent of a position brought into the competitive service.
Disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.
Former ACTION volunteer.
Current or former Foreign Service officer or employee.
Former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
Current or former employee of the U.S. Postal Service.

There are specific eligibility requirements for each of these special hiring authorities. Please read OPM's code of federal hiring regulations for more details.

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you eligible under the Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA)?Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA) is an excepted authority that allows agencies, to appoint eligible veterans without competition. If you meet any one of the following conditions.
You are in receipt of a campaign badge for service during a war or in a campaign or expedition; OR
You are a disabled veteran, OR
You are in receipt of an Armed forces Service Medal for participation in a military operation, OR
You are a recently separated veteran (within the last 3 years), AND separated under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge), you are VRA eligible.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Human Resources Specialist (Accountability and Development) position.
 I have a LL.M or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field ; OR three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, which demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the federal service performing such duties as: collecting and organizing data used in accountability reviews and preparing summaries of findings for management consideration; assisting in preparing training materials, instructional resources and coordinating classroom and virtual training activities; maintaining documentation supporting accountability reviews and corrective actions; providing logistical and administrative support for development initiatives and assisting in preparing reports, charts, spreadsheets, and briefing materials.
 I have a combination of education and experience that may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 54. Add the two percentages.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-12 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Human Resources Specialist (Accountability and Development) position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the federal service performing such duties as: serving as a senior specialist responsible for evaluating Human Resources programs and supporting accountability, quality assurance, and process improvement initiatives; developing training materials, presentations, and instructional resources; assisting in developing performance measures and accountability metrics; delivering classroom and virtual training sessions; developing reports, recommendations, and corrective action plans designed to strengthen compliance, accountability, and service delivery.
 I do not have the experience described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
A supervisor asks an HR Specialist to help develop a training program for new supervisors. What should the HR Specialist do first when assisting with the development of the curriculum?
 Identify the learning objectives and determine the skills and knowledge supervisors need to perform effectively.
 Select training vendors before identifying the topics to be covered.
 Develop a final presentation without consulting subject matter experts.
 Schedule training dates before determining the purpose of the training.


2.
The primary purpose of an individual development plan (IDP) is to:
 Document an employee’s disciplinary history and corrective actions.
 Identify developmental goals, learning activities, and career objectives that support employee growth.
 Replace the employee’s annual performance appraisal.
 Determine an employee’s eligibility for a promotion.


3.
An HR Specialist is reviewing a training program and wants to determine whether employees gained the intended knowledge. Which evaluation method would be most appropriate?
 Reviewing employee attendance records only.
 Comparing employee salaries before and after training.
 Conducting knowledge assessments or participant evaluations after training.
 Determining whether employees requested additional training.


4.
A competency model is primarily used to:
 Establish disciplinary procedures for employees.
 Identify the knowledge, skills, abilities, and behaviors needed for successful performance.
 Determine the number of employees authorized for each organization.
 Replace position descriptions.


5.

When creating training materials, an HR Specialist should ensure that the content:
 Focuses only on information preferred by the instructor.
 Includes as much information as possible regardless of the audience.
 Aligns with identified learning objectives and the needs of the target audience.
 Avoids examples because they may limit employee creativity.


6.

A performance management system is most effective when it:
 Focuses primarily on documenting poor performance.
 Connects individual employee goals to organizational objectives.
 Eliminates the need for employee feedback.
 Uses identical goals for every employee.


7.

An HR Specialist reviewing employee development programs notices low participation rates. What is the best first step?
 Cancel the program immediately.
 Determine potential causes by analyzing participation data and gathering feedback.
 Require employees to participate.
 Assume employees are not interested in development.


8.
Which activity best demonstrates workforce analysis?

 Preparing a list of employee birthdays.
 Reviewing workforce demographics, staffing trends, and organizational needs.
 Processing routine personnel actions without analysis.
 Filing completed training certificates.


9.
A developmental assignment differs from routine administrative work because it:

 Requires applying knowledge and skills to build capability and prepare employees for future responsibilities.
 Eliminates the need for supervision or feedback.
 Is performed only by executives.
 Does not require measurable outcomes.


10.
An HR Specialist is assisting with a mentoring program. Which action best supports program effectiveness?


 Assign mentors without considering developmental goals.
 Establish program objectives, participant expectations, and methods for evaluating outcomes.
 Allow participants to determine program requirements after completion.
 Limit communication between mentors and participants.


11.
A GS-12 HR Specialist is tasked with improving leadership development programs across an organization. The most appropriate first step is to:

 Purchase a leadership training course immediately.
 Analyze organizational needs, leadership competencies, and current capability gaps.
 Require all supervisors to attend the same training program.
 Develop training materials without collecting organizational data.


12.
An HR Specialist wants to determine whether a leadership development program improved organizational performance. Which approach provides the strongest evaluation?

 Counting the number of training sessions conducted.
 Measuring attendance rates only.
 Evaluating changes in targeted competencies, performance outcomes, and organizational metrics.
 Asking participants whether they enjoyed the training.


13.
A GS-12 HR Specialist identifies that employees are receiving strong performance ratings but the organization is not achieving expected outcomes. The specialist should first:
 Recommend eliminating performance ratings.
 Analyze whether performance objectives are aligned with organizational goals.
 Increase award funding immediately.
 Reduce employee development opportunities.


14.
An effective succession planning program should primarily:

 Identify critical positions, workforce risks, and strategies to develop future talent.
 Guarantee promotions for employees identified as high potential.
 Replace competitive hiring processes.
 Focus only on employees within two years of retirement.


15.

A GS-12 HR Specialist develops a competency-based development program. Which component is most important?

 Limiting development activities to mandatory training requirements.
 Aligning competencies with organizational mission requirements and desired performance outcomes.
 Selecting courses based only on employee preference.
 Measuring success solely by employee attendance.


16.
An organization wants to improve employee performance through development. The strongest HR approach is to:
 Provide identical training to all employees regardless of job requirements.
 Link development activities to performance expectations, competency gaps, and organizational priorities.
 Eliminate developmental planning because employees manage their own careers.
 Focus exclusively on technical training.


17.
A GS-12 HR Specialist conducts an organizational assessment and identifies inconsistent leadership practices. What should the specialist recommend?

 Develop targeted leadership competencies and improvement strategies based on identified gaps.
 Eliminate leadership training programs.
 Require employees to complete unrelated training courses.
 Ignore differences among organizational units.


18.
Which metric would best demonstrate whether an employee development program is achieving organizational objectives?

 Number of training emails distributed.
 Number of employees who registered for training.
 Improvement in targeted competencies, employee capability, and organizational outcomes.
 Number of training rooms used.


19.
A GS-12 HR Specialist is designing a curriculum for supervisors. The most effective approach is to:

 Develop content based only on regulations.
 Identify required competencies, analyze performance needs, and create learning objectives.
 Copy existing training without evaluating applicability.
 Focus exclusively on employee preferences.


20.
An HR Specialist advises leadership on improving organizational effectiveness. Which action best demonstrates strategic HR support?

 Processing personnel actions faster without examining organizational needs.
 Providing recommendations based on workforce data, organizational goals, and performance trends.
 Limiting HR involvement to administrative transactions.
 Avoiding analysis because leadership makes all decisions.


21.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙