Position Title
Electrical Engineer
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12981610-NE-DLG-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the education and degree requirements for this GS-07 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 EDUCATION: A 4-year bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Qualifications and 1-year of Post Graduate work.
 My degree and education do not match the choice above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-07 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-07 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-05 in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: experience reviewing construction and installation plans; experience developing procurement documentation for various projects; and experience reviewing technical work such as maintenance requirements, specifications, designs, etc.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the education and degree requirements for this GS-09 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 EDUCATION: Master's degree and 1-year of Post Graduate work.
 My degree and education do not match the choice above.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-09 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-09 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-07 in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: experience evaluating electrical systems new construction, conversion, overhaul and/or repair; experience drafting written correspondence to convey technical issues and engineering principles and regulations; and experience analyzing various electrical systems meeting US and international marine standards.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


5.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the education and degree requirements for this GS-11 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I have completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education OR possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and specialized experience that together meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My degree and education do not match the choice above.


6.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications requirements for this GS-11 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify at the GS-11 level, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-9 (next lower grade) in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: experience developing detailed specifications to support maintenance and repair of electrical systems; experience analyzing and evaluating detailed construction and installation plans; and experience developing procurement documentation for various projects.
 My experience do not match the choice above.


7.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-12 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify at the GS-12 level, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-11 (next lower grade) in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: experience developing, analyzing and evaluating electrical systems for new construction, conversion, overhaul and/or repair; experience developing written correspondence to convey technical issues and engineering principles and regulations; and experience analyzing various electrical systems meeting US and international marine standards.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


8.
Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience as it relates to the occupational requirements for this position.
 I have completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology) accredited school or that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses in 5 of the following 7 areas:(a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials; (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials; and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics.
 I have a combination of education and experience described in the announcement and it is demonstrated by the qualification that I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience described in the announcement and it is demonstrated by the qualification that I am registered as a as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience described in the announcement and it is demonstrated by the qualification that I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including the courses listed in the first response above. (NOTE: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum.)
 I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 My experience and education does not match the choices above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙