Position Title
Supervisory Physical Security Specialist
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
DE-13056648-26-AG Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following question will address your minimum qualifications for the position. Read the question and consider your answer carefully.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13), which is directly related to this line of work?

Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position.

Specialized experience for this position includes:
Managing/ leading communication systems AND
Provides guidance and training to staff in relation to assigned duties.
Providing technical expertise in initiating and leading projects involving the evaluation of related security programs.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience in evaluating Federal security policies to resolve physical security problems?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following have you conducted to evaluate physical security deficiencies?
 A. Updated and maintained security equipment.
 B. Trained personnel.
 C. Implemented comprehensive security policies and procedures.
 D. Security audits.
 E. None of the above.


4.
Select the choice that best describes your ability to analyze and research physical security issues/problems.
 A. Independently identified and properly gathered accurate and comprehensive information needed to solve basic and more complex issues and problems.
 B. Independently reviewed and analyzed straightforward and more complex information, drawing reasonable conclusions about its accuracy, finds, or importance.
 C. Accurately compiled and reviewed basic and more complex information in order to code, process, categorize, or classify the information.
 D. Made solid decisions by consolidating information and considering options and likely outcomes.
 E. Independently made appropriate decisions in challenging, ambiguous, or emergency situations.
 F. Contributed to group problem-solving efforts by providing ideas or solutions.
 G. None of the above.


5.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with Physical Security.
 I have managed physical security programs, to include conducting physical security surveys, both domestically and overseas.
 I have coordinated/managed the execution of physical security functions domestically.
 I have coordinated/managed the execution of physical security functions overseas.
 I have supported physical security efforts through the execution/management of a security function other than physical security.
 None of the above.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
Which best describes your experience conducting training with staff to keep them informed on security?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


7.
Which best describes your experience leading physical security inspections?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


8.
Which best describes your experience performing physical security evaluations?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


9.
Please select the description that best describes your experience.
 I have significant experience leading and conducting numerous complex program evaluations with broad scope to produce rigorous evaluative outputs and recommendations for program improvement.
 I have experience conducting program evaluations with broad scope to produce rigorous evaluative outputs and recommendations for program improvement.
 I have experience supporting program evaluations with broad scope to produce rigorous evaluative outputs and recommendations for program improvement.
 I have experience supporting program evaluations limited to a specific program to produce rigorous evaluative outputs and recommendations for program improvement.
 None of the above.


10.
Please select the organization(s) you have experience working with Physical Security policies and procedures. 

 A. Overseas Security Policy Board (OSPB).
 B. ISC (Interagency Security Committee).
 C. Other Agencies.
 D. None of above.


11.
From the list below select the statements that demonstrate your experience with supervision.

 

 A. Performance evaluation.
 B. Recruitment and hiring.
 C. Disciplinary action.
 D. Awards.
 E. Assigning and delegating working.
 F. Establishing performance standards.
 G. Team building.
 H. Time and attendance.
 I. Scheduling resources.
 J. Conflict resolution.
 K. Coaching and or counseling.
 L. Labor relations.
 M. Managing diversity/Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO).
 N. Employee development/training/Mentoring.
 O. None of the above.


12.
Please select the response that best describes your experience in Physical Security.



 A. I have experience managing, planning, designing, and implementing a Physical Security program, including the construction and management of secure facilities.
 B. I have experience designing and implementing a Physical Security program.
 C. I perform this task with technical guidance and assistance from a senior specialist or supervisor in the implementation and design of a Physical Security program.
 D. None of above


13.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


14.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


15.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


16.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙