Position Title
Emergency Services Dispatcher
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADSN-26-12838085-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 20, 2025 to Monday, December 1, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Answering 911 calls; Working with emergency services dispatch equipment; Providing instruction on emergency medical procedures; Interpreting pertinent laws and regulations.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the level descriptions (A to E) listed below. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


2.
When using a TDD to communicate with a hearing-impaired caller, which of the following practices are essential?

 Type messages in all capital letters
 Use “GA” (Go Ahead) to signal it’s the caller’s turn
 Use abbreviations or codes unfamiliar to the caller
 Speak loudly into the handset


3.
Why is it critical to log out of the emergency services network system after use?

 To prevent unauthorized access
 To save system memory
 To avoid slowing down the internet
 To reduce electricity consumption


4.
When a building alarm is triggered, what is the dispatcher's first responsibility?

 Silence the alarm immediately
 Verify the alarm type and location
 Call the building manager before dispatching
 Wait for a second alarm before acting


5.
Which personnel are not dispatched in response to an emergency alarm system?

 Fire department
 Police
 IT staff
 Medical responders


6.
In which situations would an Emergency Services Dispatcher NOT need to use computer programs such as Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel, or Adobe Acrobat?

 Monitoring live GPS tracking of patrol vehicles
 Supervisor schedules mandatory training using an Outlook e-invite
 Documenting call response times in Excel logs
 Sharing a report securely with Adobe Acrobat


7.
A caller reports a car accident with injuries. Which of the following is the correct order of tasks?

 Dispatch emergency services immediately, then gather caller details
 Obtain location and callback number, assess situation, then dispatch appropriate services
 Ask for patient’s medical history first, then dispatch services
 Record the call details after dispatching services


8.
Why is maintaining detailed records of emergency calls critical?

 It ensures compliance with regulations
 It provides evidence for legal proceedings
 It helps improve response times in future incidents
 It is optional unless requested by supervisors


9.
During an emergency call, what information must be verified before dispatching services?

 General area of the incident
 Caller’s callback number and exact location
 Patient’s insurance provider
 Caller’s relationship to the victim


10.
A caller reports smoke coming from a residential building. Which service should be dispatched first?

 Police
 Fire Department
 Medical Services
 Utility Company


11.
Which of the following is not a part of the dispatcher's initial assessment of a patient?

 Level of consciousness
 Breathing status
 Presence of bleeding or visible injuries
 Patient’s employment status


12.
When speaking with a highly distressed 911 caller, which of the techniques is the least effective? (Select all that apply)

 Speak in a calm, steady voice
 Interrupt frequently to get information quickly
 Use the caller’s name if known
 Provide reassurance and clear instructions


13.
When giving CPR instructions over the phone for an adult, what should the dispatcher emphasize first?

 Check responsiveness and breathing
 Begin chest compressions immediately
 Call for additional help
 Tilt the head back and check airway


14.
When instructing a caller on the Heimlich maneuver for a choking adult, what is the correct sequence?

 Encourage coughing, Back blows, Abdominal thrusts
 Abdominal thrusts immediately, Call 911
 Check airway, Chest compressions, Abdominal thrusts
 Tilt head back, Abdominal thrusts, Rescue breaths


15.
When assisting a caller with an unconscious patient, which instructions should the dispatcher give depending on the situation? (Select all that apply)

 Use the head tilt–chin lift method to open the airway if no spinal injury is suspected
 Use the jaw thrust maneuver if spinal injury is suspected
 If the patient has a pulse but is not breathing, provide rescue breaths at regular intervals
 If the patient has no pulse and is not breathing, begin chest compressions immediately
 All of the above.


16.
Which of the following is an example of Advanced Life Support (ALS)?

 Chest compressions
 Defibrillation with AED
 Endotracheal intubation
 Performing CPR


17.
When interacting with a caller reporting an emergency, what is the dispatcher's primary goal?

 To gather accurate information quickly
 To reassure the caller and keep them calm
 To determine the appropriate emergency service response
 To end the call as soon as possible


18.
Which of the following best demonstrates effective teamwork with colleagues and supervisors?

 Sharing critical updates promptly
 Ignoring feedback from supervisors
 Supporting coworkers during high-stress incidents
 Maintaining professional respect in communications


19.
A caller is yelling and panicked about a fire. What is the best approach for the dispatcher?

 Speak calmly and clearly, guiding them step by step
 Match their tone to show empathy
 Interrupt frequently
 Ask questions quickly to speed up information gathering


20.
Maintaining liaison with the scene of an emergency does not involves:

 Relaying updates between fire, police, and medical units
 Providing personal opinions on the situation
 Ensuring all agencies receive consistent information
 Coordinating with unit control centers for resource allocation


21.
During radio communication with outside agencies, what should a dispatcher prioritize?

 Using clear, standardized language and codes
 Maintaining professionalism even under stress
 Sharing only verified and necessary information
 Adding personal commentary to keep responders alert


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙