Position Title
Operations Officer
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12879680 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14: For the GS-14, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
-Experience leading analytical duties affecting office-wide administrative and operational programs; AND
-Serving as the primary management liaison with human resources officials on workforce and personnel matters; AND
-Providing management advisory services to senior leaders on human capital matters, covering areas such as classification, training and development, recruitment and placement, performance management, compensation, diversity, and/or succession planning.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Make sure examples of this experience are clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


Specialized experience for the GS-13: For the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
-Experience performing analytical duties in support of planning, development, evaluation, and decision-making affecting administrative or operational aspects of office-wide operations; AND
         -Coordinating actions with human resources staff to ensure timely and accurate processing of recruitment, classification, performance management, and related actions, OR
        - Coordinating actions with financial management and budget staff to ensure timely and accurate processing of finance and operational related actions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you meet the specialized experience statement as stated in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Make sure examples of this experience are clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


5.
Please select the choice(s) below that demonstrates your ability to communicate orally.
 A. Experience serving as a point of contact for procedural matters.
 B. Experience serving as a liaison in which contact is made with a variety of individuals for the purpose of conveying information.
 C. Experience responding to inquiries or requests for information.
 D. Experience explaining non-technical information.
 E. Experience contacting others to obtain information.
 F. None of the above.


6.
Select the answers that best describes your experience liaising with human resource personnel as a management official. Select only those areas for which you independently worked with human resource personnel to resolve.
 A. Employee Development
 B. Staffing
 C. Benefits
 D. Compensation
 E. Employee Relations
 F. Labor Relations
 G. Performance Management
 H. Classification
 I. None of the above


7.
Select the response that best describes your HIGHEST level of experience providing human capital advisory services.
 I regularly meet with a variety of individuals within and outside my organization to resolve human capital issues.
 I advised or participated in meetings with groups of individuals on sensitive human capital issues.
 I am recognized as a technical expert in handling complex internal human capital issues with assistance from the human resources personnel. This work involved advising, counseling or mediating with a wide variety of individuals and top management officials and others at all levels within and outside of the organization.
 None of the above


8.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience?
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Established and monitored project progress.
 D. Met deadlines.
 E. Assigned tasks and monitored performance.
 F. Anticipated and resolved problems.
 G. None of the above.


9.
Which response best describes your ability to work in a team environment in your immediate office and outside?
 I have limited experience working in team environments but have supported collaborative efforts involving coordination with colleagues on discrete tasks.
 I have moderate experience working in team environments, including collaborating with colleagues across functional areas to support operational processes and program execution.
 I have significant experience working in team environments, including coordinating with internal offices and external stakeholders to execute operational processes and programs.
 I have extensive experience leading and operating in highly collaborative team environments, including coordinating across senior leadership, internal offices, and external stakeholders to manage organization-wide operations and programs.
 None of the above.


10.
Indicate the following types of administrative procedures that you have implemented.
 A. Personnel
 B. Property
 C. Travel
 D. Time and attendance
 E. Facilities
 F. Security
 G. None of the above


11.
From the following choices select those that you have routinely and successfully performed at work.
 A. Arrange meetings, conferences and workshops
 B. Maintain office filing systems
 C. Track date-sensitive correspondence, or other information requiring response using an automated or manual tracking system
 D. Prepare requisitions for office supplies, maintenance, and equipment
 E. Analyze office space utilization needs
 F. None of the above


12.
Select the statement that demonstrates your highest level of experience applying or developing policy, guidance, or procedures at an agency or an independent organization.
 In response to a new directive or management direction, I developed new office guidance. I prepared the guidance with minimal guidance and forwarded it to a higher level for approval.
 I revised existing policies, guidance or procedures for higher level approval. I consulted with my supervisor or higher level employees if I have any questions.
 I followed established policy, guidance, or procedures available in operations manuals and relied on higher level staff if I have questions. I interpreted written policy, guidance, or procedures for employees and managers with minimal direction.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience?
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects
 C. Started up and managed projects through completion
 D. Monitored project progress
 E. Met deadlines
 F. Anticipated and resolved problems
 G. None of the above


14.
Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems?
 I have experience solving problems that required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to controversial issues.
 I have experience solving problems that required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively.
 I have experience solving problems that required developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus.
 I have no experience solving problems in a workplace setting.


15.
Select the one response that best reflects your highest level of demonstrated work experience.
 I independently handle multiple actions in any given day and coordinate the work with other offices as required. This is typically characterized by: answering phone calls and referring callers to appropriate subject matter personnel, follow-up on pending or required actions, categorizing incoming e-mail inquiries and performing independent research projects.
 I independently handle routine activities in my assigned organization. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, and assisting or informing other employees about office procedures and requirements.
 I typically provide support to my supervisor on routine matters and day-to-day activities. This is characterized by answering phones, referring calls, maintaining supervisors calendar, and directing visitors or other employees to appropriate person or office for assistance.
 I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙