Position Title
SUPERVISORY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Office of the Chief Information Officer
Announcement Number
26-CEC-12940829 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to Apr 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current USDA agency employees who are qualifying as Status Eligibles
Current USDA agency employees currently serving on a permanent Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current USDA employee under any of the following categories?
Current USDA employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment, who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement.
Current USDA employee serving on a VRA appointment
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.

Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating, dated within the last 18 months.

Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application for any reason (not employed, current employer does not give a performance appraisal, etc.), please provide a reason in the text box below. "N/A" is not considered an acceptable response.



Reminder: In addition to this questionnaire, you must also submit all information with documents applicable to you as described in the vacancy announcement under "Required Documents." Please read the vacancy announcement carefully. Also please follow the online instructions carefully for submitting documents and check your account to confirm the documents are received in the online hiring system prior to the closing date. If all the required information is not submitted, you will be found ineligible for this position.


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. It includes experience gained in a senior leadership position responsible for overseeing the work of a subordinate staff of employees engaged in the execution of IT related activities and/or projects for an IT organization.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one year of experience as a GS-13 or equivalent as described above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience.


1. Attention to Detail- Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
2. Customer Service- Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
3. Oral Communication- Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
4. Problem Solving- Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience in developing, planning, and analyzing strategies necessary to coordinate workloads and priorities and solve organizational, operational issues, and problems in an organization?
 Analyzed IT or IT related issues in an organization, evaluated alternatives in arriving at sound, logical solutions, made timely recommendations for modification or improvement, assured that quality goals were met, and, appropriately applied policies and procedures
 Analyzed issues related to the establishment of IT and IT related program goals and objectives of an organization and developed program evaluation strategies
 Analyzed and evaluated regulations, organizational policies, and procedures. Performed a key role in resolving IT and IT related issues that significantly affected program area administration
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job
 I have neither had education, training, nor experience in performing this task


5.
Which of the following describes your level of experience and training in the general management and daily operational support within a hosting and application based support organization? Check all that apply.
 A. I have performed requirements analysis and documented requirements for IT related processes, procedures, programs and related topics
 B. I have coordinated teams of technical staff to support documented requirements relying on subject matter experts and supporting team execution
 C. I have performed prioritization of work assigned based on organizational needs in order to meet the mission of the customer and the organization as a whole
 D. I have provided action plans to management including recommendations and defended technical, operational or procedural decisions/recommendations to leadership team when needed
 E. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements


6.
Which of the following best describes your IT or IT related supervision that developed and maintained relationships among a variety of in-house and multi-faceted organizations, that could include supervision or management of staff, IT professionals, administrative support personnel, program officials, or contractors as well as other government agencies, regarding work accomplished by the group led or supervised?
 I have experience as a permanent supervisor over a group of employees performing IT or IT related functions that coordinated and integrated the work of participating national organizations with multiple related goals
 I have experience as a permanent "team leader" over a group of IT or IT related employees
 I have experience overseeing the work of other IT or IT related Specialists as a senior IT specialist, but not as a permanent "team leader"
 I have experience leading various special IT and IT related projects
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements


7.
Select the answers below that describe your experience managing a staff of employees. Select all that apply.
 A. I have experience recruiting and onboarding new employees and have provided employee performance reviews and counseling sessions as well as employee training and development
 B. I have been responsible for the training and development of staff
 C. I have provided employee discipline and performance improvement plans
 D. I have been responsible for assigning and making decisions on work problems presented by direct reports
 E. My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements


8.
Which of the following best describes your experience in management of IT and IT related activities that include organizing, developing, and implementing workloads and priorities of an IT or IT related organization?
 I have experience as a supervisor in directing IT specialists who are engaged in resolving support requirements of end-user customers to implement workload priorities based on the goals of the organization
 I have experience in performing this task to meet the support requirements and workload goals and priorities of the organization
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job
 I have neither had education, training, nor experience in performing this task


9.
Which of the following best describes your experience in managing contract personnel? Choose the best answer.
 I am a Certified Level 2 Contracting Officer Representative (COR)
 I have experience as a COR but I’m not Level 2 certified
 I have experience as a Contract Monitor or Contract Quality Assurance Manager
 I have experience working and communicating with contract employees
 None of the above


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience in planning and executing work plans in support of an information technology organization?
 I have experience in the direct management of the overall multiyear work of subordinated managers, supervisors, and team leaders to enhance achievement of an IT organization’s long range goals and objectives
 I have experience in performing this task to enhance achievement of an IT organization’s goals and objectives
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job
 I have neither had education, training, nor experience in performing this task


11.
Select the statement(s) that describe your experience managing IT projects.
 A. Establishing and effectively managing competing priorities among multiple IT projects
 B. IT project origination, initiation, planning, execution, control and close-out
 C. Leading and facilitating IT projects to a successful completion and migrating to operations
 D. Establishing, monitoring, and reporting on the IT project progress including schedule and budget progression
 E. Meeting IT project deadlines within the constraints of the schedule (scope), time, cost, and quality
 F. Proficient use of project management and office automation software, examples include: Microsoft Office Suite, MS Project, MS Project Server, MS SharePoint, VISIO. Proficient means you understand how to use and have fully utilized the software as a major part of your regular and recurring job duties
 G. Allocating appropriate staff resources for competing projects through task assignment and monitoring work performance
 H. Anticipating and resolving conflicts at the IT project team level
 I. Developing statements of work, preparing cost estimates, preparing market research, developing sole source justifications, limited brand name justifications
 J. Gathering project sponsor requirements, preparing concept/investment proposals, preparing business cases, presenting to and following established change control processes to obtain approvals
 K. None of the above


12.
Which of the following best describes your experience with oral communication on IT or IT related subjects?
 I have experience preparing and delivering oral presentations that involved negotiating and defending IT or IT related issues on behalf of my organization
 I have experience preparing and delivering oral presentations involving communicating and explaining IT or IT related data, information, or procedures to others
 I have experience preparing and delivering oral presentations involving communicating routine IT or IT related information
 I have experience preparing and delivering oral presentations that do not involve the field of IT
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements


13.
Please select the best answer that indicates your experience acting as a representative of the organization and its mission?
 I have presented status reports and presentation within my own group
 I have presented status reports and presentation within division/branch, and feel very confident in performing such a function
 I have represented my organization to other organizations, agencies, or missions many times
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements


14.
Choose all examples matching your experience in preparing written material.
 A. I have written instructions, guidance, or procedures on program operations for distribution to internal audiences.
 B. I have written instructions, guidance, or procedures on program operations for distribution to government wide or industry wide audiences.
 C. I have written documents for distribution to the general public.
 D. I have written documents to clarify or defend a policy or position.
 E. I have prepared issue papers and or briefings for distribution to program personnel, subject matter groups and or management officials at all levels.
 F. I have reviewed and edited reports for adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 G. None of the above.


15.
Select the statement that best describes your level of experience in briefing management and other key stakeholders on technical IT or business process issues and concerns.
 I do not have experience in briefing management but I have experience developing briefing materials for someone else to present to senior management and other key stakeholders.
 I have experience in briefing management about technical IT or business process issues and concerns, and I have little experience developing or contributing to development of briefing materials.
 I have experience in briefing management about technical IT or business process issues and concerns, and I have developed detailed presentation materials as part of my normal job responsibilities.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙