Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-12808511-AF-25-080 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 19, 2025 to Sunday, December 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Guard Information
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently a member of the Indiana Air National Guard or willing and eligible to join? (NOTE: Air National Guard membership is required for this position. If you have prior service, please submit a copy of your DD-214 with your resume or state your current military grade and status)
 Yes, I am an Airman with the Indiana Air National Guard.
 No, I am a member of another states National Guard or an INARNG member but willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 No, I am a Reservist/IRR or an active duty servicemember and willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 No, I have no military status at this time but am willing to join the Indiana Air National Guard.
 No, I fall in one of the types of military status mentioned in B, C or D but do not wish to join the Indiana Air National Guard.


7.
Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of E4 through E7?
 Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above but I have prior service that falls within the ranks above, or I am able to join within the ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.


8.
Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


9.
*PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 No, this does not apply to me.


10.
Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.


11.
Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications. Must be skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.

 Yes
 No


2.
Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
 

Experience as a crew chief  as the technical expert and authority in ensuring that very complex military aircraft are prepared to carry out the day to day training mission, as well as the worldwide mobility mission as part of the Air Force and its Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) structure. Extensive knowledge of the technical theory and operational characteristics, not only of the airframe, but of mission systems peculiar to the unit aircraft and assigned mission. Extensive knowledge of the  theory and operation of aircraft systems to be able to troubleshoot malfunctions and problems, and determine the extent of repairs and involvement of others in expediting return to combat ready status. The skill and knowledge to  resolve problems and devise solutions when aircraft are not at home station, or at a location where the full complement of support equipment, supplies, parts, tools, and maintenance personnel are available. Experience performing, coordinating, and/or overseeing the work and any periodic inspections to be done on an aircraft whether it is alone, or with the assistance of other mechanics and/or workers. Coordinating the work of other journey-level workers in other trades to work simultaneously on the aircraft.  Experience serving as  the technical authority to advise on, examine, and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical, and pneudraulic repairs of assigned aircraft. Must have journey-level experience or training equivalent to or exceeding the WG-10 or WU-10 grade level.

 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


3.
In-depth knowledge of the makeup, operation, installation and adjustment of major interrelated and/or integrated aircraft systems, subsystems, and assemblies.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
 I have the knowledge to write a textbook for graduate or undergraduate study in this area or to develop industry-wide guidance or policy in this area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Skill and ability to coordinate the work of other mechanics, determine when the work is properly done, or clear aircraft discrepancies.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


5.
Knowledge and skill to train and oversee aircraft run up and taxi procedures.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
 I have the knowledge to write a textbook for graduate or undergraduate study in this area or to develop industry-wide guidance or policy in this area.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
Knowledge and skill to conduct training sessions designed to provide instructions in techniques of repair and maintenance of aircraft and related equipment.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙