Position Title
PRIMARY PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13034210-AR-26-172 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).


 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


4.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (JFHQ-IPPM) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (JFHQ-IPPM) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS that you possess.
 I HAVE 1) Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I DO NOT HAVE the mandatory positive education identified above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-11 Primary Prevention Specialist.
 I HAVE, 1) at least 36 months experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and developing plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources, 2) have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures, and 3) experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.
 I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙