Position Title
Paralegal Specialist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRM-PATH-002 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former NSEP award (Boren Scholarship, Boren Fellowship, etc.) award recipient with an unfulfilled service requirement?
All active recipients of NSEP awards are eligible for non-competitive hiring.

Your non-competitive eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the federal government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation.
When applying for a job, include your NSEP Letter of Certification or Service Agreement Report.



 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member meeting the conditions below?
You're eligible if you have at least one year of service with the Peace Corps or one year of service with AmeriCorps VISTA.
Your non-competitive eligibility lasts for one year after completing your Peace Corps or AmeriCorps service. Federal agencies may extend the period for up to three years if, after your completed service, you are:
In the military service.
Studying at a recognized institution of higher learning.
Involved in another activity, which in the agency's view, warrants an extension.
Your non-competitive eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the federal government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation.
When applying for a job, include your Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA certification of service documents with your application and make sure to mention your non-competitive eligibility status on your resume. See National Service Organizations, Peace Corps & VISTA on USAJOBS for more information...

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


5.
Recent Graduates Program
The recent graduate program is for those who have graduated, within the past two years, from a qualifying educational institution or certificate program. The recent graduate program offers career development with training and mentorship. You must apply within two years of getting your degree or certificate (veterans have up to six years to apply due to their military service obligation). 

For more information, review: USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources or Learn more about the recent graduate program...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
1.
To be eligible for this Recent Graduate position, you must meet one of the following requirements:
Recent graduates who have completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution. (Current students may apply if they are in their final semester, with a graduation date of August 2026). Include your expected graduation date on your resume and provide current transcripts. You must receive your degree prior to appointment.
Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree, due to military service obligation, have as much as six years after degree completion to apply.
Do you meet one of the conditions described above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions listed above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions listed above.


2.
Paralegal Specialist positions are available in multiple sections within the Criminal Division. Please select the sections you are interested in being considered for below. A brief summary of each section can be located in the "Duties" section of the vacancy announcement.
 A. Appellate Section (APP)
 B. Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section (HRSP)
 C. Money Laundering, Narcotics and Forfeiture Section (MNF)
 D. Violent Crime and Racketeering Section (VCRS)
 E. Unsure/No Preference


3.
To qualify at the GS-07 grade level, applicants must have one of the following:
A bachelor's degree AND meet one of the following provisions for Superior Academic Achievement: (1) A standing in the upper third of your college class or major subdivision (e.g., school of business) at the time you apply; (2) A grade point average of "B" (3.0 on a 4.0 scale) or its equivalent for all courses completed; (a) at the time of application; or (b) during the last 2 years of your undergraduate curriculum; (3) A "B+" (3.5 on a 4.0 scale) or its equivalent for all courses completed in a qualifying major field of study, either (a) at the time of application; or (b) during the last two years of your undergraduate curriculum; or (4) Election to membership in one of the national honorary societies (other than freshman societies); OR
One (1) full academic year of graduate level education; OR
One (1) year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to the GS-05 grade level. Examples of specialized experience must include duties such as: gathering and preparing legal paperwork; providing a wide range of legal support or administrative services; skill in communicating with others to exchange information; and performing research to provide background information or analysis; OR
Combination of education and experience may also be used to qualify. Please note, only education in excess of a completed undergraduate degree may be used in this calculation.
Do you meet one of the conditions described above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions listed above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions listed above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-09 grade level, applicants must have one of the following:
Two full years of graduate education or a master's degree, LL.B, J.D., or equivalent degree that demonstrates the competencies needed to do the work of the position may be substituted for the experience required; OR
At least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-07 grade level. Examples of specialized experience include: conducting legal research; writing legal reports, to include summarizing factual information, legal issues, and case law relevant to a given case; and assisting with the preparation of exhibits, such as statistical charts, graphs and maps, to be presented in court; OR
A combination of education and experience as listed below. Please note, only education in excess of one year of graduate education may be used in this calculation.
Do you meet one of the requirements described above?
 Yes, I meet one of the conditions listed above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions listed above.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided is true, correct and provided in good faith.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙