Position Title
Recreation Assistant - Community Recreation Center
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12805127 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 01, 2025 to Dec 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Recreation Assistant position at the Community Recreation Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.

This position may require for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain the following certification within 90-days of being hired: 

C.A.R.E (Controlling Alcohol Risks Effectively) 

Emergency First Responder (EFR) 

CPR First Aid 

Food handler's certification 

Would you be able to meet these instructions?  

 Yes
 No


2.
What is your level of practical work experience in customer service?
 I have 3+ years of experience in customer service.
 I have 1-2 years of experience in customer service.
 I have less than one year of experience in customer service.
 I do not have experience with customer service.


3.
How would you rate your knowledge regarding recreational and entertainment activities, including the goals, principles, techniques, and methods used in organizing, planning, and conducting them?
 I have little familiarity with various recreational and entertainment activities.
 I am familiar with some common recreational and entertainment activities but lack in-depth knowledge.
 I have a good understanding of a variety of recreational and entertainment activities, including recent trends.
 I have no familiarity with recreational and entertainment activities.


4.
What is your level of experience in office procedures and basic computer knowledge (data entry, printing, internet, electronic mail)?
 Entry– I can perform basic tasks like opening files, typing, and print.
 Intermediate – I can navigate the operating system and use common programs at a basic level (Word, PowerPoint, etc.)
 Advanced – I can operate multiple software's, and operate common programs at an advance level without supervision (Excel, Adobe, etc.)
 I have no experience operating computers and software.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
This position may require for applicants have or be able to obtain within 90 days of being placed in the position and maintain a valid state drivers' license. Would you be able to meet these instructions?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙