Position Title
Senior Attorney Advisor
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-OMHA-ATTY-26-12891382 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal surplus or displaced employee from the Department of Health and Human Services?

If yes, confirm:
 
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents at the time of application: (1) Proof of Eligibility (Reduction-in-Force separation notice, Notice of proposed removal for failure to relocate, notice of injury compensation termination, notice of disability annuity termination); or certification from the National Guard Bureau or Military Department that you are eligible for disability retirement. (2) Your latest performance rating showing a rating of at least "fully successful" (level 3); AND (3) Your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, documenting your RIF separation, tenure, grade level, position occupied, and duty station. NOTE: Your proof of eligibility must be dated within a year of the date of your application in order to meet CTAP eligibility.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Office of Medicare Hearings and Appeals (OMHA) employee who is serving under a competitive career or career-conditional appointment or excepted service appointment?

 **Please note that you must submit documentation to support your eligibility.**
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Irvine, CA
 C. Denver, CO
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. New Orleans, LA
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. Albuquerque, NM
 I. Cleveland, OH
 J. Arlington, VA
 K. Seattle, WA


2.
Have you accepted a buy-out/Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a current active bar membership? Admission to the bar of any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court is acceptable. Employees must maintain active bar membership while employed as an attorney with HHS/OMHA.

NOTE: You MUST provide proof that you are authorized to practice law. Failure to provide proof will result in an ineligible rating. Such proof can include:
An active bar card that shows the current year or an expiration date outside of the closing date of the announcement. If the card only shows a previous year (example: 2020), you must submit additional documentation.
A screen print from a bar website that reflects you are an active member of the bar. The screen print must make clear what month, date, and year the screen print was taken.
A letter/certificate from the bar certifying that you are licensed and authorized to practice law. The letter must be dated within one year of the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association through which you attained the first professional law degree, i.e. LLB, or J.D.?

NOTE: A transcript is required to substantiate possession of the required and claimed education. Unofficial transcripts (including screen-prints from your school's web portal) are acceptable for initial application; however the unofficial transcript must show:
your name
the name of the educational institution
the degree awarded
the conferred/awarded date
Self-prepared transcripts will not be accepted. Official transcripts are required prior to appointment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have 2 years of professional legal experience after admission to the bar with at least one year of experience that is equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙