Position Title
Attorney-Advisor (General)
Agency
Veterans Affairs, Inspector General
Announcement Number
26-VAOIG-12994934-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Would you like the opportunity to be considered for similar positions that require the same knowledge, skills and abilities?
 Yes
 No


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Basic Requirements (Attorney-Advisor): Applicants must be a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D.

Do you have a Law Degree or graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B., J.D. or equivalent?
 Yes
 No


7.
Which of the following best describes whether you are currently an active member of the bar in good standing of a state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 I am currently an active member of the bar in good standing of a state, territory of the United States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I am an inactive member of the bar.
 I am not a member of the bar.


Assessment 1
1.

To qualify for the GS-15 you must have four or more years of post-J.D. legal experience, of which two years must be equivalent to the GS-14 grade level.

Examples of this specialized experience may include:

Assisting with planning and executing investigative, analytical, and/or legal reviews resulting from federal criminal violations; OR
Representing entities or federal agencies in criminal enforcement matters, criminal litigation, or proceedings related to the investigation and prosecution of criminal violations; OR
Conducting legal reviews of federal criminal investigative matters and presenting the subject matter to various audiences; OR
Providing legal advice and guidance on federal criminal law issues, investigative strategies, prosecutorial considerations, or evidentiary matters to organizational officials or other decision-makers.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I possess at least four years post J.D. legal experience, with at least two years equivalent to the GS-14 grade level.
 I do not possess this experience.


2.

Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙