Position Title
Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-13026839-26-CP-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13
14
15


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0806 - Materials Engineering
 C. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 D. 0840 - Nuclear Engineering
 E. 0850 - Electrical Engineering
 F. 0893 - Chemical Engineering
 G. 1310 - Physics
 H. 1320 - Chemistry
 I. 1350 - Geology
 J. 1520 - Mathematics


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


7.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies within the Executive Office of the President who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to fulfill the basic qualifications for the Professional Engineering Series: GS-0801/General Engineering, GS-0806/Materials Engineering, GS-0830/Mechanical Engineering, GS-0840/Nuclear Engineering, GS-0850/Electrical Engineering, or GS-0893/Chemical Engineering. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration).
 I have a degree in Engineering. For this degree to be recognized, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes college-level studies, specialized training, and technical expertise that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional Registration: Current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. 2. Written Test: Evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified Academic Courses: Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum. 4. Related Curriculum: Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least one year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Physics series 1310. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree with a major study in physics; or related degree that included at least 24 semester hours in physics. The courses must have included a fundamental course in general physics and, in addition, courses in any two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in physics totaling at least 24 semester hours, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The courses must have included a fundamental course in general physics and, in addition, courses in any two of the following: electricity and magnetism, heat, light, mechanics, modern physics, and sound.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Chemistry series 1320. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree in physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- course work equivalent to a major as shown in A above, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Geology series 1350. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree with a major study in geology, plus 20 additional semester hours in any combination of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum engineering, computer science, planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, and cartography.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Evaluation of Experience: Acceptable experience may have been gained through geological field or laboratory work that provided a means of obtaining professional knowledge of the theory and application of the principles of geology and closely related sciences, e.g., geophysics, geochemistry, or hydrology. Such work generally must have involved making close observations, taking samples, handling various types of instruments and equipment, assembling geologic data from source materials, and analyzing and reporting findings orally and in writing. Experience that involved only one phase of geology work, e.g., collecting samples, would not be acceptable as providing the required professional knowledge of the theory and principles of geology. In some situations, professional scientific experience in other fields may be accepted in part as professional geological experience. Such experience must have been preceded by appropriate education in geology or by professional geological experience, and must have contributed directly and significantly to the applicant's professional geological competence. Examples include some positions in geophysics, mining engineering, soils science, physical oceanography, hydrology, climatology, biology, analytic or experimental chemistry, metallurgy, and comparable fields where the normal duties or results of investigations have been extended to the solution of geologic problems by the applicant. Ordinary functions of positions such as seismic, computer, petroleum or mining engineer, mine superintendent, or metallurgist generally are not considered professional geological experience. To receive credit for geological experience obtained in positions that are not full-time professional geological positions, the applicant is responsible for indicating clearly the actual time or percentage of time devoted to geologic duties within such positions, and for giving adequate descriptions of the geologic functions.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


5.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Mathematics Series 1520. (Transcripts are required at time of application to verify this basic requirement. Failure to submit may disqualify you from consideration)
 I have a degree with a major study in mathematics; or the equivalent of a major that included at least 24 semester hours in mathematics. The total course work must have included differential and integral calculus and, in addition, four advanced mathematics courses requiring calculus or equivalent mathematics courses as a prerequisite.
 I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in mathematics (including at least 24 semester hours in mathematics), as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The total course work must have included differential and integral calculus and, in addition, four advanced mathematics courses requiring calculus or equivalent mathematics courses as a prerequisite.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


6.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary position at the GS-11 level.

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your degree/transcripts in order to receive credit. Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration. Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-09 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1. Evaluating technical studies, research findings, cost estimates, or program data to identify operational, policy, or budget implications; and 2. Preparing analytical reports and presenting technical findings to management or other stakeholders.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience. The percentage of the required education plus the percentage of the required experience must equal one hundred percent of the specialized experience requirement.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or a LL.M. that is related to the position being filled.


7.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary position at the GS-12 level.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-11 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1. Evaluating technical, budgetary, legislative, or regulatory information and collaborate with multidisciplinary teams to develop recommendations for leadership; and 2. Performing cost-benefit, return-on-investment, or resource allocation analyses supporting science, engineering, research, or technology initiatives.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


8.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary position at the GS-13 level.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-12 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1. Performing scientific, engineering, technical, or mathematical analyses involving significant policy, budget, or program issues; 2. Evaluating scientific research, technical programs, and emerging technologies to develop recommendations affecting organizational or government-wide priorities; and 3. Developing recommendations regarding program funding, resource allocation, or strategic priorities based on technical and financial analyses.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


9.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary position at the GS-14 level.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-13 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1. Leading scientific, engineering, technical, or interdisciplinary analyses supporting major organizational, governmental, or national policy initiatives; 2. Evaluating research, engineering, technology, or scientific programs to develop recommendations involving budget formulation, legislative proposals, regulatory actions, or public policy; 3. Advising senior executives or executive leadership on technical, scientific, engineering, and budgetary issues; and 4. Conducting cost-benefit analyses, investment analyses, or resource allocation reviews supporting strategic decision-making.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


10.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience to meet the qualification requirements for the Engineer (Program Examiner) - Interdisciplinary position at the GS-15 level.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade of a GS-14 or equivalent band level of responsibility in Federal Service which includes experience: 1. Developing and recommending executive-level policy, budget, legislative, or regulatory strategies based on extensive scientific, engineering, and quantitative analyses; 2. Providing authoritative technical and strategic advice to senior executives, agency leadership, or other high-level officials on science, engineering, technology, research, or innovation initiatives; 3. Leading cross-agency or government-wide efforts involving scientific, engineering, research, technology, or budget policy development; and 4. Directing complex analytical projects with significant national or government-wide impacts that involve multiple stakeholders and integrate scientific, technical, fiscal, legislative, and policy considerations into executive decision-making.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


11.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify to the accuracy of my application and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify to the accuracy of my application or continuing with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙