Position Title
Program Analyst (Recovery Coordinator)
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
MP-26-FOCE-12879468 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 06, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Merit Promotion and VEOA Candidates: You may be eligible to be considered competitively if you meet any of the following: You are a current, permanent (non-temporary) civilian employee on a competitive service appointment in a Federal agency or a former civilian Federal employee who achieved Career or Career-Conditional status with reinstatement eligibility, or a VEOA eligible;  (YOU MUST SUBMIT ADEQUATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION, SUCH AS SF-50s SHOWING TENURE, GRADE, FULL PERFORMANCE LEVEL, TIME-IN-GRADE; INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT; DD-214 OR OTHER PROOF OF MILITARY SERVICE; ETC.).

Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities listed below: (THIS IS A MANDATORY QUESTION: You must answer "Yes" or "No"  below in order to receive proper consideration).
I am a current Federal employee with career or career-conditional status.
I am a former Federal employee with career status.
I am a former Federal employee with career-conditional status who left Federal service within the past three years.
I am a former Federal employee with career-conditional status AND I am entitled to Veterans' Preference.
I am eligible to apply under the Veterans' Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA).


 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Competitive Eligibility: You may be eligible to be considered non-competitively if you meet any of the following: You have held a permanent (non-temporary) position in the competitive service at the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as this position; or be an Interagency Career Transition Program (ICTAP) applicant. (YOU MUST SUBMIT ADEQUATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION SUCH AS SF 50s SHOWING TENURE, CURRENT GRADE, AND FULL PROMOTION POTENTIAL OF POSITION; RIF DOCUMENTATION; ETC.)
 OR
You are eligible for a non-competitive special appointment authority such as Schedule A for the severely disabled, or be eligible for a non-competitive appointment based on being a 30% or more disabled veteran, Certain military spouses, Peace Corps Service or Vista Service, etc. (YOU MUST SUBMIT ADEQUATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION SUCH AS DD 214 OR OTHER PROOF OF MILITARY SERVICE, COPY OF VETERANS ADMINISTRATION (VA) LETTER, CERTIFICATION FROM STATE OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION, PEACE CORPS DOCUMENTATION, DOCUMENTATION VERIFYING MARRIAGE, A COPY OF YOUR SPOUSE'S ACTIVE MILITARY ORDERS, ETC.)

Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities listed below: (THIS IS A MANDATORY QUESTION: You must answer "Yes" or "No"  below in order to receive proper consideration).
Based on current or prior Federal service
Schedule A for the severely disabled
30% or more disabled veteran
Certain military spouses 
Peace Corps Service or Vista Service 
Pathways Program (Limited to candidates eligible for non-competitive conversion)
Other: Transfer, Reinstatement, Reassignment, OPM Interchange agreement, Other Non-competitive Hiring Authority etc.


 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bridgeport, CT
 B. Hartford, CT
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Augusta, ME
 E. Bangor, ME
 F. Portland, ME
 G. Boston, MA
 H. Concord, NH
 I. Providence, RI
 J. Williston, VT


Current SBA/Disaster Employee
1.
Are you a current SBA/Disaster employee?
 Yes
 No


Prior SBA/Disaster Employee
1.
Have you previously worked for SBA/Disaster?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.


1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-13 Program Manager (Recovery Coordinator). Make sure your resume supports the response that you select. Mark only 1 response.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience, in a pay or work status, equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-12 level in the Federal service. This experience must demonstrate all of the following: *Experience in response and recovery operations for emergencies such as natural or manmade disasters; AND *Experience with coordinating with local, state, or federal officials or stakeholders during emergencies; AND*Provide response and recovery support for all disaster survivors and community stakeholders; AND *Draft task-orientated plans that integrate an organization’s programs with local, state, or tribal governments, or key stakeholders.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) Understand this warning; 2) Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


2.
Failure to agree with the statement above will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


NOTE: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans' preference documentation, assessment questions and answers, and SF 50s) is accurate and received by the agency.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙