Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAWpnSpt-26-13016582-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Responses to the essay questions are optional. If you choose not to respond to the essay question or essay questions, please place "N/A" in the text box.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the Basic Contracting requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 I have received a Bachelor's degree or above from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. Non DLA serviced applicants must submit transcripts. DLA applicants should ensure transcripts are on file in eOPF.
 I am a current civilian employee in DoD or member of the Armed Forces, who occupied a GS-1102 position or contracting officer position with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold on or before September 30th, 2000.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position.


2.
This next question will be used to identify whether you meet the applicable Contracting Officer requirement for the GS-12 position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 I possess at least two years of experience in a contracting position.
 I do not possess the required two years of contracting experience mentioned above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 For GS-11, I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience working with commonly used contract methods and contract types; Determining methods of procurement; Soliciting proposals for a variety of supplies or services; and negotiating or administering contracts where the contracting actions are well defined and well precedent
 For GS-11, I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. if related.
 For GS-11, I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 For GS-12, I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service, which is in or directly related to the line of work of this position. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience applying contracting principles, laws, statues, regulations and procedures applicable to pre and post-award actions sufficient to administer contracts for a variety of goods and services; Experience with federal contract methods and contract types, which requires specialized experience to plan and carry out pre-award and/or post-award procurement actions; Experience with federal contract administration policy, procedures, techniques, and evaluation/control methods sufficient to monitor prime and subcontractor performance on complex, long term contracts; Experience using negotiation techniques to solicit, award, monitor/terminate assigned products/contracts; Experience communicating through written communications and discussions with vendors/customers; and Experience assisting junior specialists with procedures related to contract administration.
 I do not possess the specialized experience or education to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙