Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ME-12854616-T32-AF-25-089 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to all questions. For each, choose the response that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



5.
Your attached resume is subject to evaluation and verification.  Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. 
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.  I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).  I understand that any information I give may be investigated.  I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙