Position Title
IT Cybersecurity Specialist ( System Administration)-Direct Hire
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
Direct Hire-12855121-26-DAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Jan 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current employee of the Department of Justice who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, confirm you meet all the following requirements:

•    You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
•    Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
•    Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You MUST also submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as:
•    A Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), AND 
•    A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND 
•    A copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action)


For more information, USAJOBS Help Center..
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) - Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of Department of Justice? If yes, confirm you meet all the following requirements:
•    You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
•    Your grade is/was equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
•    Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent;
•    It has been less than a year from your separation from Federal service

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).
For more information, https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. New York, NY
 E. El Paso, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


3.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.)1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the Description below, select the response that best demonsrates your ability to perform IT Cybersecurity Specialist (System Admin),GS-2210, four competencies: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication, and Problem Solving as described in the announcement, defined as: 

Attention to Detail- Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service-Works with clients and customers (that is any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication: Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes, I have experience performing the four competencies in the announcement.
 No, I do not have experience performing the four competencies in the announcement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level obtained in the federal government. (Specialized experience is paid or unpaid experience that has equipped you with the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the position's duties successfully). Examples of specialized experience include such duties as:
1.Administering Azure Active Directory, managing user accounts, groups, and
access permissions to ensure compliance with security policies.
2. Configuring virtual hardware components such as CPU, memory, storage,
and network interfaces to meet specific workload requirements.
3.Implementing policies to enforce governance standards and compliance
controls across cloud subscriptions, maintaining security and compliance.
4. Troubleshooting network connectivity issues within Azure Virtual
Networks, resolving latency and packet loss issues.
5. Monitoring system performance using various monitoring tools, identifying
and mitigating bottlenecks to optimize system efficiency and reliability.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level obtained in the
federal government. (Specialized experience is paid or unpaid experience that has equipped you with the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the position's duties successfully). Examples of specialized experience include such duties as:
1. Administering Azure Active Directory (AAD) to manage user identities and
groups and access permissions across Azure cloud environments.
2.Configuring Virtual Networks (VNets), subnets, and network security
groups (NSGs) to secure network environments.
3. Automating routine administrative tasks and workflows using Automation
and PowerShell scripting to improve operational efficiency.
4. Leveraging advanced monitoring and log analytics tools to monitor,
analyze, and optimize the performance of resources and applications.
5. Managing Azure virtual machines (VMs), storage accounts, and SQL
databases to ensure optimal performance and availability.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙