Position Title
Communications Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12947964-26-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Instructions: Please respond to each item below.  We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
(Basic Qualifications) GS 9 - You will have to have one year specialized experience or higher and/or meet educational requirements or a combination of specialized experience and education at the next lower grade level (GS 7) in order to qualify for the GS 9 level.

Specialized Experience: 
Skill in organizing and communicating ideas and thoughts effectively through written correspondence and oral presentation.
Skill in audio-visual techniques to assist in preparation of slide show, speech materials, or other methods of communication.
Skill in developing materials to convey information in a professional and understandable format for a wide-ranging audience.
Skill using the Social Media, SharePoint, eChannels, etc. as a marketing channel.
OR

Education: Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.

OR

Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond and successfully completion graduate education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the Communication Specialist, may be substituted to meet the experience requirements for GS-09 position. For example, an applicant with 6 months of appropriate specialized experience equivalent to GS-07 (50 percent of the experience requirement for GS-09) and 1 year of successfully completed graduate education (18 semester hours), as described above, (50 percent of the education requirement for the GS-09) would qualify for a GS-09 position.

Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume.  You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have  (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.

Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I possess the specialized experience or education at the GS-7 level
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience or education at the GS-7 level


2.
(Basic Qualifications) GS 11 - You will have to have one year specialized experience or higher and/or meet educational requirements or a combination of specialized experience and education at the next lower grade level (GS 9) in order to qualify for the GS 11 level.

Specialized Experience: 
Skill and understanding of a wide range of principles, concepts, and techniques of marketing, advertising and salesmanship and the ability to transform these ideas into a working, viable program.
Skill in interpersonal communication to provide assistance and technical advice to individuals and groups from varied backgrounds. Develops and maintains effective relationships with all individuals, including those who may present barriers to program success, while maintaining sensitivity to cultural diversity, race, gender, disabilities, and other individual differences.
Skills to facilitate, negotiate, mitigate and resolve Secure Messaging and related challenges.
Skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of issues, barriers and challenges of a procedural or factual nature concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations.
OR

Education: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related or I have completed three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.

OR

Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have combination of specialized experience and education. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at the GS-11 grade level. (When crediting education that requires specific course work, prorate the number of hours of related courses required as a proportion of the total education to be used.)

Note: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held on your resume.  You must provide work experience information such as hours per week, salary, and starting/ending dates of employment (month and year format) to establish you have  (1) full year of Specialized Experience at or comparable to the required grade level.

Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I possess the specialized experience or education at the GS-9 level
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience or education at the GS-9 level


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙