Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
U.S. Trustee Program
Announcement Number
USTP-26-12987216-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Recent Graduates Program
The recent graduate program is for those who have graduated, within the past two years, from a qualifying educational institution or certificate program. The recent graduate program offers career development with training and mentorship. You must apply within two years of getting your degree or certificate (veterans have up to six years to apply due to their military service obligation). 

For more information, review: USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources or Learn more about the recent graduate program...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Diego, CA
 B. Houston, TX


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


Merit Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Condition of Employment
1.
You will be required to complete a pre-employment security investigation and background check which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


2.
You may be required to complete a one-year probationary or two-year trial period. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


3.
Selective Service registration is required for males born on, or after, December 31st 1959. Those not registered must submit an approved exemption. Please select the response that best fits how you meet this condition of employment. Please click here (https://www.sss.gov/faq/#who-needs-to-register) to learn more about who needs to register.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have registered for the Selective Service System.
 I am a male born before December 31st 1959, and am not required to registered for the Selective Service System.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not registered for the Selective Service System, but have a valid approved exemption. (Documentation must be submitted with your application.)
 I am not a male and am not required to register.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not yet registered for the Selective Service System.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Paralegal Specialist (Bankruptcy) Specialist position with the Federal government.   Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the Paralegal Specialist (Bankruptcy) GS-0950-7.  Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Additional steps in the selection process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Government Paralegal Specialist (Bankruptcy) work at the GS-7 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-5 in the Federal service performing the following duties: Applying a general knowledge of basic legal terms and concepts; providing routine administrative support to attorneys; researching case law to address simple legal questions; and/or reviewing and/or editing legal documents.
 Successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university; and meet one of the Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) provisions. The SAA provisions include the following: 1) a grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher for all completed undergraduate coursework or for all courses completed in the last two full years of undergraduate work; 2) a GPA of 3.5 or higher for all courses in the major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two full years of undergraduate work; 3) ranking in the upper one-third of your college, university or major subdivision; or 4) membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies; OR
 Successfully completed one full academic year of graduate education (18 units or equivalent) from an accredited college or university.
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts).
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B or C. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙