Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-26-DT-12993123-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION - This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the San Diego, CA Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
1. Are you a current employee of the VBA - San Diego Regional Office (station 377) as described above?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above


TIME IN GRADE - As a current Federal GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements (unless you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA). To verify you meet Time-in-Grade requirements, you MUST submit a SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step held (e.g. Promotion, Within Grade Increase {WGI}, Appointment, etc.).


2.
GS-12: At the GS-12 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you.
 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-11 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS - This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position. In addition to the Time-In-Grade requirements above (if applicable), applicants must ALSO meet the minimum qualification requirements in order to be referred to management.


3.
GS-12: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as experience diagnosing problems within the organization and implementing plans and means to make improvements and/or implement change; or experience developing the design of business processes, systems, technology, and/or job roles for a division within a VA Regional Office. There is no education substitution at this grade level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher) performing the duties described above and in the vacancy announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT - Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


4.
Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙