Position Title
Student Trainee (Information Technology)
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
DE-ITC-26-12800616 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Monday, January 5, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a student who has been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited educational institution pursuing a qualifying degree?
To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Member #4 copy indicating character of service discharge)) or other proof of service that includes character of service.
PLEASE NOTE: You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program while you are employed to remain eligible for this Internship.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Information Technology and Cybersecurity (ITC Auditor Intern) Graduate position with the Government Accountability Office (GAO).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
At the GS-7 grade level, this position requires applicants to be enrolled in an accredited college or university leading towards a Graduate degree in an IT-related field of study, AND meet ONE of the following criteria:
You completed between 18 to 35 semester hours or 27 to 53 quarter hours of graduate level education in one of the following IT-related majors: computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management; OR
You possess a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (defined in the announcement) majoring in one of the areas listed above; OR
You possess a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement in any major that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the IT-related fields identified above, and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks; OR
You have one year of specialized experience at the GS-5 level that is defined as performing duties that involve evaluating information about IT management and security topics, such as systems development; program planning and management; requirements management; investment management; information assurance; cloud computing; IT contractor oversight; IT workforce planning; cybersecurity of critical infrastructures; electronic records management; and/or IT privacy; and developing recommendations based on findings, and presenting such recommendations to decision makers. In addition, you must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the following four competencies: (1) Attention to Detail - demonstrates the ability to take thorough notes, prepare accurate written summaries, and synthesize information and drawing preliminary conclusions; (2) Teamwork - demonstrates the ability to collaborate and work effectively in a team-based setting (3) Written and Oral Communication - demonstrates the ability to conduct and participate in meetings, and present information in writing and orally to team members, management, and stakeholders; and (4) Problem Solving - demonstrates the ability to apply analytical methods to identify patterns, trends, or irregularities, and to assess evidence to develop findings and recommendations for improvement.

Do you meet the basic qualification requirement of this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
At the GS-9 grade level, this position requires applicants to be enrolled in an accredited college or university leading towards a Graduate degree in an IT-related field of study, AND meet one of the following criteria:
You completed 36 or more semester hours or 54 or more quarter hours of graduate level education that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the following subjects: computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management; and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks; OR
You possess a Master's Degree or equivalent graduate degree in one of the majors listed above; OR
You have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-7 level or equivalent. Specialized experience is defined as performing duties that involve evaluating information about IT management and security topics, such as systems development; program planning and management; requirements management; investment management; information assurance; cloud computing; IT contractor oversight; IT workforce Planning; cybersecurity of critical infrastructures; electronic records management; and/or IT privacy; and developing recommendations based on findings, and presenting such recommendations to decision makers. In addition, you must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the following four competencies: (1) Attention to Detail - demonstrates the ability to take thorough notes, prepare accurate written summaries, and synthesize information and drawing preliminary conclusions; (2) Teamwork - demonstrates the ability to collaborate and work effectively in a team-based setting (3) Written and Oral Communication - demonstrates the ability to conduct and participate in meetings, and present information in writing and orally to team members, management, and stakeholders; and (4) Problem Solving - demonstrates the ability to apply analytical methods to identify patterns, trends, or irregularities, and to assess evidence to develop findings and recommendations for improvement.

Do you meet the basic qualification requirement of this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
In the space below, enter the full name of the educational institution at which you are currently enrolled.



4.
In the space below, enter the full name for the type of degree you are pursuing during this internship. (e.g., Associates of Business Administration degree, Bachelor of Science degree, Doctor of Philosophy). Do not use acronyms.



5.
In the space below, enter the topic of study/major/concentration for degree you are pursuing.



6.
In the space below, enter the month and year that you expect to earn the degree you are pursuing during this internship.



7.
Will you be able to complete at least 400 hours (approximately 40 hours per week for 10 weeks) as a GAO intern before you graduate from your program?
 Yes.
 No.


The following questions require you to write brief essays regarding your education and/or experience. Please be sure to address the three knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA): analytical, research and writing in the narrative boxes provided. You may rely upon experience gained from school, volunteer work, military service, paid employment and/or professional/community/social organizations when answering the questions. You MUST provide detailed and descriptive narrative responses that explain how you have gained the experience that demonstrates that you meet each KSA. Any application that says "Please see resume" or the equivalent or "N/A" will not be accepted. In addition, one word responses such as "advance," "basic," or "well," will not meet the requirement for the narrative responses. The information you provide in your essays must be supported by your resume. Failure to provide a narrative may result in a disqualification rating.


8.
In 1000 characters (including spaces) or less, describe in the space provided the experience you have gained that demonstrates your knowledge of and experience with analytical concepts, principles, and practices (methods) that provides the ability to analyze and evaluate qualitative and quantitative data to make logical inferences and/or draw logical conclusions.



9.
In 1000 characters (including spaces) or less, describe in the space provided the experience you have gained that demonstrates your ability to prepare written documents that effectively communicate information, some of which are complex, that are complete, organized, and grammatically correct.



10.
In 1000 characters (including spaces) or less, describe in the space provided the experience you have gained that demonstrates your ability to learn new and complex material quickly in order to understand the issues and obtain relevant and sufficient information about the research problem/issue.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙