Position Title
Chaplain
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12831522-26-YAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 12, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic and grade level requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions. Please be sure to check your answers before submitting. Also please ensure that you are supporting your answers by demonstrating them on your resume, clearly. We will NOT make any assumptions.


Basic Requirements for the position of Chaplain GS-0060


To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION: Applicants must possess a Master of Divinity degree or equivalent educational qualifications as evidenced by a graduate-level theological degree from a college, university or theological school accredited by a member of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) or Association of Theological Schools (ATS) and recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was conferred.

NOTE: For applicants who do not possess a Master of Divinity degree or equivalent educational degree, an approved educational equivalency review from a nationally recognized board certification body for chaplains is acceptable such as the Board of Chaplaincy Certification Inc. (BCCI) or a nationally recognized certification body that utilizes the BCCI Common Qualifications and Competencies for professional Chaplaincy or a certifying organization that has a reciprocity agreement with BCCI.

 I possess a Master of Divinity degree accredited by a member of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) or Association of Theological Schools (ATS) and recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 I possess equivalent educational qualifications as evidenced by a graduate-level theological degree accredited by a member of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) or Association of Theological Schools (ATS) and recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 I am currently a chaplain in the VHA who as of September 24, 2020, was grandfathered and am considered to have met the positive education requirement.
 None of the above.


3.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree:

Name of Institution
City and State
Degree
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred



4.
CLINICAL PASTORAL EDUCATION (CPE): Applicants must have completed four units of CPE from a CPE center that is accredited by an organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. NOTE: Listing of currently accredited CPE Centers is available here: ACPE - AccreditedCPEDirectory. For centers which are no longer accredited but were accredited at the time candidate may submit an ACPE Transcript Request (acpe.edu) or contact ACPE to confirm their unit was from an accredited center (404) 320-1472.


Please select the appropriate response below. Documentation to support meeting this requirement must be submitted with your application.

 I have completed at least four units of CPE from a CPE Center that is accredited by an organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 I am currently a chaplain in the VHA who as of September 24, 2020, was grandfathered and am considered to have met the CPE requirement.
 I do not meet this requirement.


5.
ENDORSEMENT: Applicants must possess a full and active ecclesiastical endorsement, dated within the past 12 months.

Do you possess an Ecclesiastical Endorsement dated within the last 12 months from the official national endorsing authority of your faith group or denomination?

 I possess an Ecclesiastical Endorsement dated within the last 12 months from the official national endorsing authority of my faith group or denomination.
 I am currently a chaplain in the VHA, and my endorsement is in good standing.
 I do not meet this requirement.


6.
Please provide the date of your endorsement and endorsing authority. If you answered B or C, indicate "N/A".



7.
CERTIFICATION: Applicants must be a Board-Certified Chaplain by the Board of Chaplaincy Certifications Inc. (BCCI) or nationally recognized certification body that utilizes the BCCI Common Qualifications and Competencies for Professional Chaplaincy or a certifying organization that has a reciprocity agreement with BCCI.

Please select the appropriate response below.

 I am currently a Board-Certified Chaplain certified by the Board of Chaplaincy Certification Inc. (BCCI).
 I am currently a Board-Certified Chaplain certified by a nationally recognized certification body that utilizes the BCCI Common Qualifications and Competencies for professional Chaplaincy or a certifying organization that has a reciprocity agreement with BCCI.
 I am currently a chaplain in the VHA who as of September 24, 2020, was grandfathered and am considered to have met the board certification requirement.
 None of the above.


8.
Specialty Certification from a professional chaplain certifying body is required for the GS-12 Chaplains and the certification must be directly related to the position being filled.

Do you have a specialty certification directly related to this Chaplain position as indicated in the announcement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Please select all specialty certifications you hold:

 Drug & Alcohol Addiction
 Grief Recovery Method Specialist
 Hospice & Palliative Care
 Mental Health
 Moral Injury
 Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
 Suicide Prevention
 None


10.
If you indicated you hold specialty certifications, please provide details regarding the certifications including when you received each certification and the certifying body. If you do not hold any of the listed specialty certifications, please indicate "N/A".



11.
To qualify at the GS-12 level you must meet the basic requirements plus at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level that is directly related to the position to be filled such as independently serving as a primary resource for the spiritual needs of patients, caregivers, and staff; providing advance care planning education, information and counsel or patients and their families, providing pastoral counseling on medical and ethical matters, coordinating with community organizations and engaging community resources to meet religious needs of patients.
Your experience must demonstrate (on resume) that you meet the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):

- Ability to apply relevant theories and methodologies to their ministry specialty.
- Ability to integrate specialized psychological and sociological theory with an advanced approach to spiritual care.
- Skill to seek out primary research and research literature that informs the ministry specialty and one's spiritual care practice.
- Skill in developing and implementing methods for measuring effectiveness of chaplain practice and services in the specialty area, utilizing outcome evaluations to improve treatment services and to design system changes.
- Ability to mediate conflict, hold various emotions and diffuse moral distress among staff and complex crisis situations.
- Ability to provide specialized consultation, teaching and mentoring to colleagues and students on advanced spiritual care interventions in the service delivery area.
- Ability to apply advanced clinical knowledge to write policies, procedures and/or practice guidelines pertaining to the service delivery area.

Do you meet the experience and KSA requirements for the GS-12?

 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
Certification Statement To the best of my knowledge and belief, I certify that all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentionally false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙