Position Title
AIRMAN AND FAMILY READINESS SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12931486-AF-26-062-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Do you posses the skills that demonstrates the ability to do the following?

Analyze problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data, and recognize solutions;
Plan and organize work; and
Communicate effectively orally and in writing.
 Yes
 No


2.

Do you have 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower GS-grade that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position?

 Yes
 No


3.

Do you have experience or the ability to assist the Air National Guard Wing leadership in the development and implementation of a family readiness and support program to include Personal and Family Life Education services, Airman and Family Readiness Deployment Support, Personal Financial Readiness services, Employment Assistance, Military Child/Youth Program and Education and the Transition Assistance Program?



3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.

Do you have experience or ability to provide plans for an efficient resource management program and provide maximum support of service delivery to include resource center, equipment, funding, tracking, and computerized systems?



4a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


5.

Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙