Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-13010589-AR-26-200 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with TNARNG membership within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
our responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks and can use common equipment in the line of work?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 36 months experience,  in addition to journeyman level knowledge, which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel; experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines; experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function; experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes; experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience establishing deadlines, priorities, and work sequences, and plans work assignments based on general work schedules, methods, and policies?


3a.
Please provide an example of your past experience(s) as it relates to the question outlined above.


4.

Required
Do you have experience participating in the initial planning of current and future work schedules, staffing needs, estimates, and recommendations as it relates to scheduling projected work?


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


5.
Do you have experience preparing for and participating in various types of readiness evaluations, inspections, mobilization and command support exercises?


5a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


6.
Do you have experience ensuring all aspects of Force Protection to include physical security, facility and vehicle key control, property accountability, access control and employee protection in accordance with established policies and regulations?


6a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙