Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Human Performance)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12832802 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 13, 2025 to Sunday, November 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for the Recreation Assistant - Human Performance position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess?
 At least 1 year of specialized experience assisting in conducting structured fitness and recreation activities.
 Successful completion of a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree with a major study related to recreation or physical education.
 At least 24 semester hours in courses related to recreation or physical education.
 An equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 None of the above.


2.
Do you possess a current professional certification from a National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) accredited health/fitness organization or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC)? 

Use the link below to view NCCA professional certifications:  
https://ice.learningbuilder.com/Search/Public/MemberRole/ProgramVerification2?model.Organization=&model.Accreditation=&model.ProgramAcronym=&model.Industry=Fitness%20and%20Wellness&model.ProgramName=&performSearch=true&_o=&_d=&_p=&_s=20
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have providing fitness training for individuals or groups of various sizes and skill levels?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have providing fitness equipment/facility orientation?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙