Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12875860-AF-26-016 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 03, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E7?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E7.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E7.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your abilitiy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process. Experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09:  Do you possess 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Specialized experience examples, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training receiving, maintaining, and issuing data storage media for computer operations. Experience in scheduling the use of computer time for program processing. Experience collecting and sequentially staging input media with associated program instructions for processing. Experience in at least one programming language. Translating detailed logical steps developed by others into language codes that computers accept where this required understanding of procedures and limitations appropriate to use of a programming language. Experience interviewing subject-matter personnel to get facts regarding work processes and synthesizing the resulting data into charts showing information flow. Experience in analysis of the interrelationship of pertinent components of the system. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment. Experience scheduling the sequence of programs to be processed by computers where alternatives had to be weighed with a view to production efficiency.
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-11: 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. In addition to the OPM IORs (Alternative A) specialized experience examples, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion.
 Yes
 No


4.

Describe a time when you were responsible for a major upgrade or implementation of a new network operating system. What steps did you take to plan, configure, install, and test the new system? How did you ensure a smooth transition with minimal disruption to users?



5.

Tell us about a situation where you identified a recurring network problem through data analysis. What tools and methods did you use to analyze network usage and performance? What were your recommendations, and how did they improve the network's efficiency?



6.

Describe your experience in planning for future technology integration. How do you stay current with advancements in network hardware and software? Provide an example of a time you recommended and justified the acquisition of new technology that significantly improved network capabilities.



7.

This position requires a strong understanding of information assurance. Describe a time when you were responsible for implementing a critical security measure or responding to a network security incident. What steps did you take to ensure compliance with security policies and protect the network from threats?



8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙