Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12939722-AR-26-101 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Information Management in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Information Management in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that demonstrates your ability to performs duties as a technical coordinator or technical specialist on issues relating to the Wide Area Network (WAN) and Local Area Network (LAN) systems and their integration with the network? The specialized experience must also indicate your ability to diagnose and correct complex system faults based on data provided by remote systems monitoring tools; resolve problems affecting multiple users of a large network; assess situations complicated by conflicting requirements which must be analyzed to determine the applicability of established methods; identify, analyze and recommend new requirements and changes to current network systems; and install, configure, troubleshoot, and repair new and existing network information systems, network peripherals and devices.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management or degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems or networks.
 Yes
 No


3.
In detail, explain your experience developing, defining, assessing and recommending concepts or solutions to implement network designs, policies and procedures that will result in continual upgrade, enhancement and optimization of the state's wide area command and control network and that will ensure proper network configuration and standardization.


4.
In detail, explain your experience coordinating with procurement officials in developing statements of work containing quantities of required support.


5.
In detail, explain your experience re-engineering products to correct malfunctions and/or enhance performance.


6.
In detail, explain your experience performing project management on all network modifications (voice, video and data), architecture and enhancements.


7.
In detail, explain your experience managing projects approved for implementation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙