Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12847667-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following are the basic requirements for appointment as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (GS-1601) positions in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Transcripts - You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application if qualifying based on education. Education cannot be credited without documentation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Basic Requirements for entry level GS-05:
Education, Experience, or Certification:
(1) Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field;

OR
(2) Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience;

OR
(3) Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program;

OR
(4) Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience;

OR
(5) Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship;

OR
(6) Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience;

OR
(7) Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment.

Do you meet one of the education and/or experience requirements as stated above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.

 5
 7
 9
 11


3.
Do you possess certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES)?

 Yes, if so please provide copy of certificate
 No


4.
BIOMEDICAL EQUIPMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST, GS-7 (Developmental Level 1)

Please select the response that best describes your qualifications for a GS-07.

 I have 52 weeks of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-5) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled such as providing support of basic medical equipment and systems.
 I do not meet the requirements above. In addition, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


5.
BIOMEDICAL EQUIPMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST, GS-9 (Developmental Level 2)

Please select the response that best describes your qualifications for a GS-09.

 I have 52 weeks of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-7) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled such as providing support of medical equipment and systems; performing and documenting all repairs and preventive maintenance activities; performing incoming inspections on new medical equipment and systems; and providing biomedical equipment technical training.
 I do not meet the requirements above. In addition, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
BIOMEDICAL EQUIPMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST, GS-11 (Full Performance Level)

Please select the response that best describes your qualifications for a GS-11.

 I have 52 weeks of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level providing support of medical equipment and systems; utilizing schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, and technical manuals as guidelines; maintaining inventory documentation of assigned networked-attached medical equipment/systems; and providing biomedical equipment technical training. Certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), Net+ and A+ are highly desirable at this level but not required.
 I do not meet the requirements above. In addition, you must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙