Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Liberty)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13000017 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Recreation Assistant position at the Community Recreation Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.
What is your level of practical work experience in customer service in conjunction with a point-of-sale system (cash register)?
 I have 5+ years of experience in customer service in conjunction with point-of-sale system (cash register).
 I have 3-4 years of experience in customer service in conjunction with point-of-sale system (cash register).
 I have less than one year of experience in customer service in conjunction with point-of-sale system (cash register).
 I do not have experience with customer service in conjunction with point-of-sale system (cash register).
 I have 1-2 years of experience in customer service in conjunction with point-of-sale system (cash register).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

This position may require for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain the following certification within 90-days of being hired: 

Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and First Aid Certification
Food Handler certification (where food is prepared)
Alcohol safety training (where alcohol is served)

Would you be able to meet these instructions?  

 Yes
 No


3.

Considering the areas of organizing, planning, and administering special events and skill in providing excellent customer service , which level of capability do you possess?

 Entry: Able to assist with event setup and provide basic customer assistance following established guidelines and under supervision.
 Intermediate: Able to plan and execute smaller special events independently, provide excellent customer service, and address common issues proactively.
 Advanced: Able to lead the planning and execution of large-scale special events, develop innovative customer service strategies, and proactively address complex challenges to ensure event success.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have a valid state drivers' license?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position may require irregular working hours to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays. Are you able to work these shifts/hours to meet the programs needs? 
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙