Position Title
Personnel Appeals Board Member
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
PAB-26-DE-13072578
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Nov 02, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No
IOR
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.
Do you have a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA)?
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in any United States jurisdiction?
 Yes
 No
2a.
If you selected &quot;Yes&quot;, please provide the jurisdiction and your Bar identification number. If you selected &quot;No&quot;, please type &quot;N/A.&quot;
Minimum qualifications
1.
Select the statement that best describes your ability, background, training, and experience to serve as a Board Member of the U.S. Government Accountability Office Personnel Appeals Board. Non-qualifying Experience Experience handling non-adversarial legal matters as an attorney is not qualifying. Examples include corporate law, trust and estate matters, and tax law.
 I have at least 7 years of experience as a licensed attorney adjudicating and/or arbitrating employment and/or labor law matters at the federal, state, or local level.
 I have at least 7 years of experience as a licensed attorney independently handling litigation, including preparing for, participating in (as lead counsel), and/or conducting formal hearings or trials on employment and/or labor law matters at the federal, state, or local level.
 I have at least 7 years of experience as a licensed attorney adjudicating and/or arbitrating matters at the federal or state level, but the matters did not involve employment or labor law issues.
 I have at least 7 years of experience as a licensed attorney independently handling litigation, including preparing for, participating in (as lead counsel), and/or conducting formal hearings or trials at the federal, state, or local level, but the matters did not involve employment or labor law.
 I do not meet any of the choices above.
1a.
Provide the information below for each work experience that supports your response. Job title Start and end dates Name, title, and telephone number of an individual(s) who can verify your information. This person should preferably be someone that was your supervisor. Example: Intern, 01/01/2010 - 12/31/2019, Derrick Smith, Supervisor, 123-456-7890 If you selected&nbsp;&quot;I do not meet any of the choices above&quot;, enter &quot;N/A.&quot;
