Position Title
Security Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZD-12933940-26-CD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Security Assistant position within the VISN 7 Human Resources Personnel Security Unit (PSU). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government, and your eligibility for referral consideration. Please select the most appropriate response to each of the following questions. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy, and to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Please make sure to review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-5: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-5 level. Please ensure your resume/application supports the response you select.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 level in the federal service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of this Security Assistant position. Qualifying specialized experience includes: knowledge of regulations, policies, procedures, principles and concepts that govern the Personal Identity Verification Program (to include HSPD-12); ability to use various computer, automation systems; computer skills in terms of data entry, compiling information, preparing and submitting reports, and database maintenance and management; maintaining confidentiality of information, both electronic and print; and communication and interpersonal relation skills sufficient to appropriately and courteously relate to internal and external customers both verbally and in writing. I understand that this experience must be fully detailed on my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 I have successfully completed four (4) years of education above the high school level. This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have an equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience to meet the total experience requirements at the GS-5 level. This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I do not possess the required qualifications listed above and understand that I will not be found qualified for the GS-5 level of this position.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-6: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-6 level. Please ensure your resume/application supports the response you select.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in the federal service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of this Security Assistant position. Qualifying specialized experience includes: knowledge of the regulations, policies, procedures, principles and concepts that govern the Personal Identity Verification Program, to include HSPD-12; ability to provide technical advice and guidance to internal and external customers both verbally and in writing; ability to enter, extract, and evaluate employee information via access to various computer databases; : utilization of security objectives and programs; following established procedures or instructions for carrying out support tasks related to security administration; maintaining reports and logs on the status of security and/or background related information; handling access request for access cards (i.e. PIV or CAC) and researching applicable regulations. I understand that this experience must be fully detailed on my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience as described above and understand that I will not be found qualified for the GS-6 level of this position.


3.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-7: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response bellow that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-7 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select).

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 level in the federal service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of this Security Assistant position. Qualifying specialized experience includes: ability to recognize and resolve discrepancies in documentation submitted by sponsors or customers; ability to work calmly and effectively in sensitive, stress-producing situations; use of automated systems for the issuance of access cards (i.e. PIV or CAC); properly obtaining and entering required background information into automated systems; utilizing proper regulations for the adjudication process; working with individuals to obtain required information for the same; performing audits of security programs; and providing consultative services to managers regarding security programs and regulations. I understand that this experience must be fully detailed on my resume and that failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience as described above and understand that I will not be found qualified for the GS-7 level of this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙