Position Title
Sailing Instructor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12884188 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Have you uploaded proof of your qualifications/certificates as a sailboat and/or power boat instructor(Accredited certifications from US Sailing or equivalent) :
US Navy MWR Instructor Certification
Local sailing instructor certification equivalent
US Sailing Basic Keelboat Instructor Certification
Basic Keelboat Instructor Trainer Certification
Other Nationally recognized organizations (the American Sailing Association (ASA) and US Coast Guard certification)
 Yes I have upload a copy of my certification
 No I have not uploaded a copy of my certifications but will provide at time of interview
 No I do not have any of the above certifications


2.
How many years of documented experience do you have teaching or leading a groups in sail boats
 Two plus years of documented experience
 One to two years of documented experience
 6 months to one year of documented experience
 Less than 6 months of documented experience or No documented experience


3.
How many years of documented experience do you have teach or leading a group in small power boats
 Two plus years of documented experience
 One to two years of documented experience
 months to one year of documented experience
 Less than 6 months of documented experience or No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙