Position Title
Area Manager
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCRB-26-12882797-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 J. Phoenix, AZ
 K. Laguna Office, Lake Forest, CA
 L. Los Angeles, CA
 M. Oakland, CA
 N. Sacramento, CA
 O. San Diego, CA
 P. San Francisco, CA
 Q. San Jose, CA
 R. Thousand Oaks, CA
 S. Denver, CO
 T. East Hartford, CT
 U. Washington, DC
 V. Jacksonville, FL
 W. Miami, FL
 X. Ft Lauderdale Office, Plantation, FL
 Y. Tampa Office, Saint Petersburg, FL
 Z. Atlanta, GA
 AA. Honolulu, HI
 AB. Baltimore, MD
 AC. Boston, MA
 AD. Las Vegas, NV
 AE. Newark, NJ
 AF. Buffalo, NY
 AG. Manhattan Office, New York, NY
 AH. Long Island Office, Westbury, NY
 B. Greensboro, NC
 C. Portland, OR
 D. Philadelphia, PA
 E. Pittsburgh, PA
 F. Nashville, TN
 G. Salt Lake City, UT
 H. Richmond, VA
 I. Seattle, WA


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No
 NA - 1 Year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Area Manager position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Area Manager at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select all the support tasks that you currently perform and/or have performed in the past on a daily basis: (Select all that apply)

 A. I analyze policies, procedures and regulations for a broad range of administrative areas.
 B. I formulate solutions and make recommendations to improve the efficiency of operations for a broad range of administrative support areas.
 C. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization
 D. I assess existing support services programs to determine whether they support the work of an organization.
 E. None of the above.


3.
Select all the existing support services programs you assess or have assessed to determine if they support the work of an organization.
 A. Procurement
 B. Space Management
 C. Technology/Systems Management
 D. Records Management
 E. Property Management
 F. Travel
 G. Facility Management
 H. Customer Service
 I. Work Processing Procedures
 J. None of the above


4.
Select the task(s) you have performed as a regular and recurring part of a job assignment.
 A. Planned, coordinated and established a system for tracking the work in an organization to monitor action items and deadlines.
 B. Designed and implemented new or revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs.
 C. Implemented new or revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs.
 D. None of Above


5.
Select the statement that best describes your experience designing and implementing new or revised administrative procedures to meet organizational needs.

 I have formal education/ training in this area. However, I have not yet applied this skill in work situations.
 I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in applying program management techniques.
 I have formal education/ training in this area and work experience in creating a vision for a program, establishing an agenda for implementing the vision, establishing effective management procedures and constraints identifying challenges to, and opportunities for, the program.
 I have no formal education/training in this area but I have work experience in applying program management techniques.


6.
Please select the top three administrative program area(s) in which you have the most experience performing technical tasks.

 A. Staffing & Recruitment
 B. Performance Management
 C. Data Analysis
 D. Time & Attendance Reporting
 E. Financial Management
 F. Procurement
 G. Travel Management
 H. Space and Facilities
 I. None of the above.


7.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience developing metrics to ensure accountability, tracking and/or monitoring of program efforts?

 I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have education or training in performing this task but have not performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have routinely and independently performed this task as a regular part of the job, and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am highly skilled at performing this task on the job. I have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance.


8.
Select the statement that best describes your skill to provide leadership to accomplish the goals for an organization by guiding and motivating others and gaining the confidence and active support of internal and external customers and stakeholder groups.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to foster culturally diverse work organizations to achieve organizational goals and objectives.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


10.
Which of the following leadership skills have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience? Select all that apply.

 A. I have independently supervised staff composed of diverse types of support, recommended awards, completed performance reviews, and facilitated personalized development plans.
 B. I have experience as a team leader promoting staff engagement.
 C. I have been responsible for developing and/or providing interpretations to staff on regulations, policies, and procedures based on existing precedents.
 D. I have assisted with planning of an office expansion, consolidation, or relocation.
 E. My experience in leading, mentoring, and/or motivating staff has been recognized as highly successful, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 F. I do not have the experience described.


11.
For which of the following events have you communicated orally or made oral presentations?

 A. Conferences
 B. Meetings
 C. Video Conference
 D. Training Sessions
 E. Technical Assistance
 F. None of the above.


12.
Identify the various types of oral communication in which you have experience:

 A. Briefings to coworkers/supervisors.
 B. Meetings with members beyond my immediate work unit.
 C. Communications with staff members of other agencies.
 D. Responding to general information requests from the public and/or industry personnel.
 E. None of the above.


13.
With which of the following officials/organizations have you established liaison? Select all that apply.
 A. Senior Government Officials
 B. Colleagues
 C. Members of other business units
 D. Members of other Government Bureaus/Agencies
 E. Technical Experts
 F. Senior Management Officials
 G. Non-Governmental Organizations or Businesses
 H. Outside Vendors
 I. Client Members
 J. None of the above


14.
Please choose the statement(s) that describes your written communication.

 A. I have routinely written and sent electronic communications and correspondence to customers throughout my Division.
 B. I have drafted reports, memoranda, electronic communications, and correspondence for distribution throughout a Division.
 C. I have prepared responses and explanations to non-routine questions from peers, customers, and managers.
 D. None of the above.


15.
Which of the following statements describe your communication skills and experience? Select all that apply.
 A. I have experience interacting with others to resolve complex issues that impacted multiple individuals or locations.
 B. I have experience writing documents such as technical reports, standard operating procedures, and strategic plans.
 C. I have experience interacting with others that I serve to resolve issues.
 D. I have experience interacting with others that I supervise to resolve issues.
 E. I am effective at using enterprise software to communicate via instant messages, live audio/video conferencing, etc.
 F. My experience in communication has been recognized as highly-successful, e.g., through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 G. I have education or training in communication techniques and strategies.
 H. I have experience participating in personnel discussions with management, employees and labor relations officials.
 I. I have experience communicating performance feedback to others, either in writing or orally.
 J. I do not have experience in the communication skills outlined.


16.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙