Position Title
Auditor (Info Sys) - IT Operations Directorate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-25-12790941-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2025 to Sep 04, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG) career employee or Student Cooperative?  All others are ineligible on this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Agency Employees:
 
This announcement is only open to current U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG) career or USPS OIG Student Cooperative employees.

Note: All others are ineligible for this announcement.


Please select the option that best describes how you meet this eligibility requirement.
 I am a current U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General career or Student Cooperative employee.
 I am not a current employee of the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General.


2.
Auditor (Information Systems) Education Qualification Requirement:

To qualify for the Auditor (Information Systems), GS-07/09 equivalent position, you must have a bachelor's degree in a qualifying field. Accepted majors include business-related, government-related, or technical-related areas.

Please select the option that best describes how you meet this education requirement.

Note: You must upload transcripts from an accredited college or university to support your selection.

 I have a degree in a business-related major: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
 I have a degree in a government-related major: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
 I have a degree in a technical-related major: Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I qualify based on a combination of education and experience that provided professional auditing knowledge, such as at least four (4) years of full-time performance auditing experience, or an equivalent mix of education, training, and experience.
 I do not meet either the education or the combination of education and experience requirements described above.


3.
To be eligible for the GS-09 equivalent level, you must meet at least one (1) of the below qualifications:
 
A Master's Degree in auditing or in a related field (see below for additional accepted degree list) such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting. You must submit transcripts from an accredited college or university.
OR
At least one (1) year of professional, full-time experience conducting financial, program, and/or performance audits.

Additional Auditor (Information Systems) Designation Degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to:
Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to:
Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to:
Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.

Select the qualification that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for the GS-09 equivalent level.
 I have a Master's Degree in auditing, business administration, finance, public administration, accounting, or other related acceptable majors.
 I have at least one (1) year or more of professional, full-time experience conducting financial, program, and/or performance audits.
 I do not meet either of the eligibility requirements for the GS-09 equivalent level.


4.
Awarded Degree Area of Study:

Provide the full name of each degree you have earned and the corresponding major area of study (e.g., B.A. in Public Administration, M.S. in Information Systems).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
In-Office Requirement:

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's current telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable) You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Career Ladder Opportunity Information & Requirements:

This is a Journey Band Career Ladder position. The Career Ladder program provides for annual pay increases through the pay band based on specific requirements. The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General is Excepted Service, uses pay bands, and our Journey Band covers equivalents of GS-07 through GS-13. This specific announcement covers GS-07 through GS-09 equivalents.

How the Career Ladder program works:

If approved, the employee will receive (on their anniversary of effective date) an increase in base salary of:
Six (6) percent
OR
The amount needed to bring salary to Step-1 of the next equivalent GS grade, whichever is greater.

Approval is dependent on the managers certification that:
The employee can perform satisfactorily at the next GS equivalent grade
AND
The employee receive a PES (evaluation) rating of "Met Expectations" or higher.

Once the employee has reached the equivalent GS-13 level, they have graduated from the Career Ladder program and future increases are covered by the Performance Evaluation System (PES).

Please acknowledge you have read the above summary of the Career Ladder program. You may have an opportunity to ask more about this program during the interview stage. 

For further questions, please reach out to your HR Analyst or submit an HR Help Desk ticket through KCE.
 Yes
 No


7.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation


This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct document type.For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
Postal Service Form 50 (PS-50). (Reach out to your HR Analyst or submit a help desk ticket through KCE for assistance)
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


8.
Certification of Accuracy: 


Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙