Position Title
Medical Laboratory Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13061910-26-AO Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


5.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


6.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT). The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-06. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-05 to GS-06.


The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package: For the GS-6 i Knowledge of MLT principles, practices, concepts and theories for sound independent work. ii Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures to manage reagents and supply inventories using document control systems. iii Ability to maintain, troubleshoot and repair instrumentation. iv Ability to work as a team member in a laboratory setting to effectively complete assignments. v Ability to use technical judgment to interpret laboratory results. vi Ability to apply complex written laboratory instructions. vii Ability to consult with other members of the health care team, patients and external customers.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess appropriate certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), as granted by the following organizations. Note: Education. Candidates must meet the applicable educational requirements for certification.

 Yes, I possess appropriate certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), from the American Society of Clinical Pathology (ASCP): ASCP, Board of Certification; OR ASCP, Board of Registry. (Attach copy of certification with your application) Required.
 Yes, I possess appropriate certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), from the American Medical Technologists. (Attach copy of certification with your application) Required.
 Yes, I possess appropriate certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), from American Association of Bioanalysts. (Attach copy of certification with your application) Required.
 I am a graduate of foreign MLT program, I possess current, active, appropriate certification as an Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), from: American Society of Clinical Pathology (ASCP) i ASCP, Board of Certification. OR ASCP, Board of Registry, American Medical Technologists, OR American Association of Bioanalysts. (Attach copy of certification with your application) Required.
 No, I do not possess appropriate certification as a as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), but I would be eligible for a temporary appointment as a "graduate MLT". Note: Temporary Appointment is not to exceed two years as a graduate MLT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2) without the option to extend.
 No, I do not meet requirements. I acknowledge my application will not receive further consideration.


2.
Narrative: Please provide the following information regarding your certification: active or expired, certification type, state issued, date of original issuance, date of expiration.


3.
GS-05 GRADE DETERMINATION: I possess current, active appropriate certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT), from the American Society of Clinical Pathology (ASCP), ASCP Board of Certification; ASCP, Board of Registry; American Medical Technologists; OR American Association of Bioanalysts. My experience includes perform testing in one or more of the following areas: Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived testing, phlebotomy, hematology, immunohematology, clinical chemistry, immunology, toxicology, urinalysis, referral laboratory, microbiology and specimen processing, OR I am non-certified applicant that meets the eligibility requirements for certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT). My experience includes perform testing in one or more of the following areas: Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waived testing, phlebotomy, hematology, immunohematology, clinical chemistry, immunology, toxicology, urinalysis, referral laboratory, microbiology and specimen processing.

 Yes.
 No


4.
GS-06 GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition, to the basic requirements, I possess one year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level. My experience includes performing day-to-day operations in the laboratory with minimal technical supervision while ensuring testing accuracy and quality of proper patient care. This includes providing pre-analytic instructions to patients, staff and other external entities related to collection and processing of laboratory specimens. MLTs use processing techniques such as centrifugation, aliquoting, storage and packaging (considering stability factors), and they accurately label and sort patient specimens. OR I am non-certified applicant that meets the eligibility requirements for certification as a Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT). My experience includes performing day-to-day operations in the laboratory with minimal technical supervision while ensuring testing accuracy and quality of proper patient care. This includes providing pre-analytic instructions to patients, staff and other external entities related to collection and processing of laboratory specimens. MLTs use processing techniques such as centrifugation, aliquoting, storage and packaging (considering stability factors), and they accurately label and sort patient specimens.

 Yes.
 No


***Application Package Notification & Important Information*** We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete. Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration: • Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration. • Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements. Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate. Some helpful tips: *Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: o Job title o Grade Level (for federal positions) o Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position) o Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020) o Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) *Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. *Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage). *Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50) *Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable). https://help.usajobs.gov/how-to


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙