Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-13040881-26-ATG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


4.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part I, pre-employment reference checks have been incorporated into the selection process. Hiring officials must conduct pre-employment reference checks with a current or previous supervisor prior to HR staff extending a tentative offer.

In the textbox below, please provide the name, telephone number and email address of at least one current/former supervisor who were in a position to directly observe your work within the previous 3 years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted, or if you prefer to provide your references upon request.

*Note: Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for applying for the Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position with the Richmond, Virginia VAMC. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).



1.
EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its designated successor. If your educational institution's program was accredited by CoARC or its successor at the time of graduation but is no longer listed on official websites or has undergone a name change, you must provide documentation verifying accreditation with your application. Failure to do so will result in disqualification.

Additionally, a transcript from an accredited college, university, or other recognized educational institution must be submitted with your application.

Do you meet the educational requirement specified above?
 Yes, I successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by CoARC or its designated successor. I have provided a copy of the my transcripts with my application.
 No, I have NOT successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by CoARC or its designated successor.


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Must be proficient in spoken and written English.
 YES - I am proficient in spoken AND written English.
 NO - I am NOT proficient in spoken AND written English.


3.
LICENSURE: A Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you hold an active license from a state to practice respiratory therapy in a state?
 I possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and understand that I must maintain licensure for the duration of my employment if selected. (You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application).
 I am currently employed in VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) and have been determined to be covered by the Grandfathering Provision and may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation.
 I do NOT possess a full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT).


3a.
Provide the following information regarding your licensure. If you are not licensed yet please indicate the expected date and state or territory.

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration date:


4.
CREDENTIAL: Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) position in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment an active RRT credential.

Do you possess a valid and unrestricted credential of RRT?

Exception. RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below. (a) VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C.7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full, and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level. (b) RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received. (c) RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT. (d) Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.
 Yes
 No


4a.
Please provide the following information regarding your credential (active and expired):

Credential type:
State issued:
Date of original issuance:
Date of expiration:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GRADE REQUIREMENT: Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11 Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have:
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
Hold an active license and RRT credential by the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).
Additionally, you must also demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) listed below: 
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
Do you meet the grade requirement specified above?

NOTE: Please ensure that your clearly describe how you meet the specialized experience in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title: Duties (be as detailed as possible). Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2018). Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to each questions by addressing your work experience in detail. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙