Position Title
Striker Diesel Electric
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13029799-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Striker Diesel Electric position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the Striker Diesel Electric duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex task which includes: operating and repairing engines; operating equipment controls; making frequent readings of temperature and pressure gages, noting proper operation of lubricating reservoirs and replenishing lubricants in reservoirs and grease cups; observing pumps for leaks; answering pilothouse signals, manipulating controls governing speed and directional setting of propelling engines; and interpreting technical manuals or specifications. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks which includes: checking of temperature and pressure gauges for proper readings, feeling motors and bearings to detect overheating, and checking oil, fuel or other lines for leaks; reporting improper operation to supervisor; assisting in the maintenance of main propulsion engines and auxiliary equipment, operating equipment controls, and interpreting technical manuals or specifications. I work under minimal supervision, subject to occasional inspection. I work on my own initiative under minimal supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks which includes: assisting in the maintenance of engines and auxiliary equipment, operating equipment controls, reading and checking gauges; and interpreting technical manuals or specifications. I normally work under the general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks which includes: performing preventive maintenance work including changing fuel/oil filters, replacing pumps, changing oil, assembly and disassembly work in assisting supervisor on major repair jobs, painting engine room and equipment and performing housekeeping tasks. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙