Position Title
Foreman I Craftsman
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
DE-13005627-26-TJP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.


You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.


2.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


3.
Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.).


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Ability to do the work of a Foreman I, Craftsman without more than normal supervision. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a Foreman I, Craftsman without more than normal supervision. Your response below must be fully supported in your resume or you will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have performed 6 or more of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 4-5 of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 3 of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 2 of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 1 or less of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).


2.
This position requires general knowledge and skill in several craft areas with journeyman-level knowledge and skill in at least one of the following crafts. Please indicate the crafts in which you possess journeyman-level knowledge and skill as reflected in your resume.

 A. Carpentry
 B. Welding
 C. Plumbing or pipe fitting
 D. Concrete finishing and repair
 E. Mechanical work (inspecting repairing, lubricating and testing)
 F. Electrical maintenance work
 G. Mobile Equipment or crane operator (graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts)
 H. Metal fabrication
 I. Masonry
 J. Machinist
 K. Millwright
 L. Painting (industrial)
 M. None of the above


3.
Select the best response that describes your ability to lead employees.
 I have served as a leader over craft/trade workers on a regular basis. I provided work assignments, direction and reviewed work in progress and upon completion.
 I have led craft/trade workers on operation and maintenance projects. I provided technical guidance and direction in performing tasks.
 I have experience training helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers. I interpret instructions and explain how to do the work.
 I do not have experience leading craft/trade employees.


4.
Select the response that best reflects your experience working with a diverse workforce to accomplish maintenance and repair tasks in a professional (commercial or industrial) environment.
 I have been a foreman or lead mechanic in a commercial or industrial environment, leading a diversely skilled/multi-craft workforce of 4 or more employees and was responsible for the successful completion of assigned tasks.
 I have been a member of a diversely skilled/multi-craft workforce and was responsible for contributing to the successful completion of assigned tasks.
 I have been a member of a single skill/single craft workforce and have experience in working with others to achieve the best results both on a personal and professional basis.
 None of the above


5.
Select the responses that best describes your leadership skills that enable you to motivate, inspire, and build respect and trust in a diverse workplace.

 A. I have experience with creating and sustaining a workplace environment that motivates, cooperatively works together, and inspires others to do their best.
 B. I have experience in evaluating and an understanding what drives high performance and how individual values in the work environment determine how employee's reach their goals.
 C. I have experience in building respect and trust by leading with authenticity and encouraging employees to be genuine and consistent in their interactions.
 D. I have experience in maintaining a work environment by understanding and using the similarities and differences in the make-up of a workforce.
 E. I have experience in combining assessments, individual decision-making styles, problem solving, and behavioral styles of a workforce and possess the practical tools to maximize the effectiveness of a workplace.
 F. I have experience with creating and maintaining a positive work environment through effective prevention and resolution of conflict.
 G. I have experience gaining and maintaining cooperation from others and creating a work environment that values diversity by exerting positive influence, negotiating, coaching, leading by example, and emphasizing creativity and teamwork.
 H. None of the above


6.
Select the response that best reflects the number of employees you have led or supervised.
 0
 1 - 4
 5 - 9
 10 - 19
 20 or more


7.
Select the response(s) that describe your experience in planning work.
 A. Plan the manpower needed
 B. Estimate and track costs of time and materials
 C. Plan for equipment
 D. Create short and long term work schedules
 E. Manage several jobs at the same time
 F. Manage a job with more than one trade performing the work
 G. Use maintenance management or planning computer software program
 H. Track job progress and job completion
 I. Procure materials for the project
 J. None of the above


8.
Select the responses that best describe your work experience dealing with special projects and short deadlines.
 A. I have experience rearranging workload priorities to accommodate special projects and short turnaround assignments while maintaining timely high-level performance on other assigned actions.
 B. I have experience dealing with "out of the ordinary" assignments that oftentimes include program personnel that have no prior experience.
 C. I have experience completing projects under a great deal of pressure and extremely short deadlines while dealing with demands for action that may be unfeasible.
 D. I have experience in initiating emergency work and emergency procurement actions.
 E. I have experience in planning, establishing priorities, and organizing multiple project workloads.
 F. I have served on teams to plan, establish priorities, and organize tasks or activities.
 G. None of the above.


9.
Select the interpersonal communication skill(s) that you have routinely and successfully applied at work.

 A. Facilitate the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed in order to meet a program objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance or instruction to support staff or new co-workers.
 D. Administer consequences, hold others accountable to meet program requirements, policies and/or standards.
 E. Persuade others to adopt new methods, procedures or techniques in order to improve operations or to meet new standards.
 F. Diffuse confrontational contacts with people who are difficult, hostile or distressed.
 G. Coordinate with others to accomplish work-related activities.
 H. Respond orally to inquiries or requests for information with staff outside the immediate office and other agencies.
 I. Deal with confidential/sensitive issues and understand impact of violating confidentiality
 J. Routinely address changing situations, priorities, and workload to ensure continuous flow of work processes.
 K. Show courtesy, tact, empathy, cooperation, concern, and politeness to others in resolving controversial issues or problems.
 L. Deal with individuals of varied backgrounds.
 M. Work with others to complete a project.
 N. None of the above.


10.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience in operating wheel tractors, front end loaders, backhoes, mowers, dump trucks or towing equipment.
 I have not performed this job function.
 I have operated some of the listed equipment.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform this function
 I have performed this function independently as a regular part of jobs that I have held.
 I am highly skilled at performing this function. I have performed this independently and routinely and have carried this out successfully and safely.


11.
Select the concrete/masonry task(s) you have performed as a regular part of your job.

 A. Pour footings
 B. Pour foundations
 C. Pour stairways
 D. Set forms for flat work
 E. Set forms for retaining wall
 F. Use concrete vibrator
 G. Repair concrete deterioration or spalling
 H. Pour flat surfaces such as sidewalks or slabs
 I. Work with polymer impregnated concrete
 J. Work with epoxy concrete
 K. Calculate the amount of concrete needed to complete a project
 L. Know when to use and have used rebar to complete a project
 M. Finish concrete using floats, trowels, edgers, and jointers
 N. Mix color into concrete
 O. Use cinderblock to build foundations, retaining walls, and buildings
 P. Use brick to build sidewalks, retaining walls, and buildings
 Q. None of the above


12.
Select the equipment you have operated as a regular part of your job.

 A. Semi-tractor and trailers over 26,000 GVW
 B. Dump trucks
 C. Vehicle(s) with multi-gears, manual transmissions
 D. Bulldozer D-3 or larger
 E. Backhoe
 F. Crane(s)-gantry or bridge
 G. Mobile crane
 H. Hydraulic boom truck
 I. Man-lifts
 J. PTO powered mowing equipment
 K. Road grader
 L. Forklift
 M. Front end loader
 N. Skid steer front end loader (Bob Cat)
 O. 4-Wheel drive vehicles, 1/2 ton or larger, off road
 P. None of the above


13.
Select the welding task(s) you have performed as a regular part of your job.

 A. Use MIG wire feed welders
 B. Use TIG welders
 C. Use arc welders
 D. Use cutting torch
 E. Use brazing torch
 F. Braze cast metals
 G. Weld stainless steel
 H. Use plasma cutter
 I. Use heliarc
 J. Perform overhead welding
 K. Perform spot welding
 L. None of the above


14.
Select the response(s) that describes your knowledge and experience in repairing and replacing mechanical systems and equipment for a large facility.

 A. I have knowledge and experience with heavy equipment such as dump trucks, loaders, and back hoes.
 B. I have knowledge and experience of rigging and crane operations.
 C. I have experience in interpreting drawings prepared by engineers used to maintain equipment.
 D. I have experience in the use of process instrumentation to diagnose problems and recommend repairs.
 E. I have experience with the repair and replacement of hydraulic systems.
 F. I have experience in writing project manuals and/or documents or Standard Operating Procedures.
 G. I have knowledge of and experience working with auxiliary equipment systems such as pumps, piping systems, compressors, pneumatic systems, air conditioning systems.
 H. I have experience with managing facility evacuation in the event of fire alarms.
 I. I have experience with emergency response plans
 J. None of the above.


15.
Select the responses that describe the situations you have performed work while operating gasoline and diesel-powered heavy mobile equipment.
 A. Rough grading for roads
 B. Building earth embankments
 C. Cover and compact landfill
 D. Stock pile of materials
 E. Cut fire breaks
 F. Compact building pads
 G. Lay asphalt
 H. Finish grade
 I. Excavate trench between utilities
 J. Haul and place materials with 10 cubic yard or greater end dump truck
 K. Haul and place materials with 20 cubic yard or greater belly dump trailer
 L. Other
 M. None of the above


16.
Which of the following activities have you performed which required you to read and interpret blueprints, drawings, and manufacturer's instructions?

 A. I have experience fabricating parts using blueprints or drawings.
 B. I have experience performing major repairs on power system equipment or any type of hydraulic/mechanical equipment using blueprints, drawings, and/or manufacturer's instructions.
 C. I have experience using construction or electrical blueprints, drawings, or instructions.
 D. I have taken technical coursework in blueprint reading, drafting, etc.
 E. I have used manufacturer's instructions to develop specifications for the acquisition of equipment or parts.
 F. I have used equipment maintenance manuals to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules.
 G. I have used blueprints to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 H. I have used drawings to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 I. I have used manufacturer's instructions to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 J. None of the above


17.
Select the response that defines how long it has been since you have had an at-fault accident (personal injury to self or others or property damage) at work.
 More than 5 years
 More than 3 years and less than 5 years
 More than 2 years and less than 3 years
 More than 1 year and less than 2 years
 Less than 1 year
 I have never had an at-fault accident


18.
From the following list, select all of the safety standards, guidelines, and/or procedures for which you have experience, education, or training.
 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (HECP) or Lock out tag out (LOTO)
 C. Basic Electricity in the Workplace
 D. Hearing Conservation
 E. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 F. Respiratory Protection
 G. Confined Space
 H. Hazardous Communications/MSDS
 I. Spill Prevention
 J. Fire Extinguishers
 K. Infectious Control (Bloodborne Pathogens)
 L. Emergency Response Planning
 M. Personal Fall Protection
 N. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 O. First Aid
 P. Hazardous Waste
 Q. Asbestos Awareness
 R. Workplace Safety and Health Inspections
 S. Construction Safety Standards
 T. Boating
 U. None of the above


19.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙