Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
OIS-2026-SH-12894735 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Please indicate the OIT location(s) you are interested in working at. If you choose a location outside of your local commuting area, you will be responsible for relocation expenses.
 A. Washington DC
 B. Hines, IL
 C. Eatontown, NJ
 D. Albany, NY
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Salt Lake City, UT
 H. Shepherdstown, WV


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Individual Occupational Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Information Technology Specialist, GS-2210-15.

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Building and scaling high-performance security teams. Advanced knowledge of commercial and open-source offensive and defensive tools. Deep understanding of networking, systems (server and endpoint), security, architecture, engineering for large (over 300,000 user) environments. Advanced knowledge of the defense in-depth, risk and security postures. Up to date knowledge of Threat Intelligence and Tools/Tactics/Procedures (TTP) of cyber threat adversaries. Deep understanding of defensive controls, such as Endpoint Detection and Response/Extended Detection and Response (EDR/XDR), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM), Firewalls, Vulnerabilities and how to correlate the information from an assessment to capabilities gaps and ability to work with Cybersecurity and other teams to strengthen defenses and harden internal systems for lowering risk exposure.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Assessment 2
1.
Which federal law establishes requirements for information security programs across federal agencies?

 HIPPA
 FISMA
 SOX
 GDPR


2.
As a GS-15 Supervisory IT Specialist, which of the following is a key responsibility in managing cybersecurity risk?
 Approving all firewall rule changes personally
 Developing and implementing an agency-wide risk management framework
 Performing hands-on penetration testing
 Writing all source code for security tools


3.
Which of the following best describes the role of the Supervisory IT Specialist in incident response?

 Directly performing forensic analysis
 Leading the development and oversight of incident response policies and procedures
 Configuring SIEM tools daily
 Writing malware signatures


4.
Do you have experience developing and maintaining an agency-wide cybersecurity policy?

 Yes
 No


5.
Have you managed a team responsible for continuous monitoring of information systems?

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have experience overseeing incident response activities at an enterprise level?

 Yes
 No


7.
Which of the following are responsibilities of a Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC)? Check all that apply.

 A. Oversee development of cybersecurity policies
 B. Perform daily helpdesk troubleshooting
 C. Perform daily helpdesk troubleshooting
 D. Approve system authorizations
 E. Write all application source code


8.
Which activities are part of continuous monitoring responsibilities? Check all that apply.
 A. Reviewing security control effectiveness
 B. Conducting vulnerability scans
 C. Developing encryption algorithms from scratch
 D. Updating Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms)
 E. Performing annual risk assessments


9.
Which leadership tasks are emphasized for GS-15 supervisory positions? Check all that apply.
 A. Strategic planning
 B. Policy development
 C. Daily coding assignments
 D. Budget oversight
 E. Team performance evaluations


10.
Which of the following are key elements of an incident response program? Check all that apply.
 A. Incident detection and reporting
 B. Root cause analysis
 C. Development of malware signatures
 D. Communication with stakeholders
 E. Post-incident lessons learned


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙