Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13002570 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have broad knowledge of Navy Fleet and Family Readiness programs, issues, policies, procedures, regulations, and support functions. (must be documented on resume to receive credit.)
 Yes
 No


2.

Which statement best describes your experience managing financial operations?

 I have managed complex financial operations for a large organization and advised senior leadership on financial policies, internal controls, budgeting, and financial management.
 I have independently managed financial operations including budgeting, accounting, payroll, and financial reporting for an organization.
 I have assisted with financial operations such as accounting, payroll, or budgeting.
 I have no experience managing financial operations.


3.

Which best describes your experience developing and managing budgets?

 I have led the development, execution, and monitoring of complex organizational budgets while coordinating with multiple departments or stakeholders.
 I have independently prepared and managed annual operating or capital budgets.
 I have assisted with preparing or monitoring budgets.
 I have no experience developing budgets.


4.
Which best describes your supervisory experience?
 I have supervised supervisors and multiple work units, including hiring, performance management, employee development, and disciplinary actions.
 I have supervised employees and completed performance evaluations, assigned work, and approved leave.
 I have served as a team lead but did not perform formal supervisory duties.
 I have not supervised employees.


5.
Which best describes your experience analyzing financial data and maintaining internal controls?
 I have served as the primary financial advisor for an organization, developing financial recommendations, ensuring audit readiness, and overseeing internal controls.
 I have independently analyzed financial reports, reconciled accounts, and ensured compliance with financial policies and internal controls.
 I have reviewed financial reports or reconciliations as part of my duties.
 I have little or no experience in this area.


6.
Which financial management systems have you used as part of your work?
 I have served as the functional lead or administrator for multiple integrated financial systems and used them to support organizational financial management and reporting.
 I have experience using one or more enterprise financial systems (such as SAP, Kronos, Oracle, or similar) to support accounting, payroll, budgeting, or financial reporting.
 I have used Microsoft Excel or other basic financial software.
 I have not used financial management systems.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙