Position Title
Fish Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R4-26-12980446-RR-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below: 

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive, Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency (U.S. Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) and are serving or served under a time-limited competitive service appointment (Term, Temporary)?  You may be eligible to compete under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, P.L. 114-47.

Current land management agency appointees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; must have been separated (with respect to their most recent separation) for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two years of their most recent date of separation.

You must provide documentation showing all required periods of service which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations or references from supervisors (if employed for periods of time too short to require an appraisal) for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.

For more information about Land Management Workforce Eligibility:  USAJOBS Help Center - Land management

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service AND has held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive, current, permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Assessment 1
Basic Education GS-0482


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Please select the response below that best describes how you qualify for the Basic Education requirement for the GS-0482 Fish Biology series:
 I possess a Bachelor's Degree with a major in a biological science that includes the following course work: 1) at least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology; AND 2) at least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences subjects such as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, genetics, ecology, cellular biology, parasitology, entomology, or research courses in such subjects; NOTE: If you select this response, please provide a copy of your official college transcripts to show how you meet this requirement.
 I have a combination of education and experience that is equivalent to a major in a biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours) of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences as described in ?A? above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. NOTE: If you select this response, please provide a copy of your official college transcripts to show how you meet the educational requirement.
 Neither "A" nor "B" describe my background. Therefore, I do not meet the basic requirements for this position.


Minimum Qualifications GS-0482-11/12


2.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the for the GS-0482-11 Fish Biologist position:
 I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level (comparable to GS-09) in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience for this grade is defined as (1) performing work in or directly related to Fish Biology including carrying out daily activities of hatchery production operations; propagating cold, cool and/or warm water aquatic species; (2) assisting in program planning and administration; (3) observing fish for signs of stress or disease and initiating the appropriate steps to alleviate stress or treat disease; (4) maintaining records of fish production and distribution; ; (5) monitoring water quality and making adjustments to water supply; (6) prepare fish for shipment or distribution and assist with stocking activities; (7) performing maintenance on fish hatchery equipment and facilities. NOTE: To qualify under this option, your resume must contain sufficient detail to prove you have one year experience performing these duties.
 I have completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree in a field directly related to fishery biology such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, fish and wildlife management, marine science, or other fields directly related to fishery biology.
 I possess an equivalent combination of professional experience and graduate level education beyond the second year which together equals 100% of the requirements.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education (or combination) as described above; therefore, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement for the GS-11 grade level.


3.
Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the for the GS-0482-12 Fish Biologist position:
 I qualify for this position at the GS-12 grade level because I have one year of specialized experience comparable to the GS-11 grade level in Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience for this grade is defined as includes (1 planning, leading, and carrying out daily activities of hatchery production operations; propagating cold, cool and warm water aquatic species; (2) assist with program planning and budget preparation; (3) working with various stakeholders (Federal, State, Tribal, and civic entities and agencies), to coordinate fish production activities; (4) developing, scheduling and carrying out daily hatchery work activities to include fish culture, distribution and fish health; (5) maintain timely and accurate production records; (6) leading, mentoring, and instructing lower graded employees. NOTE: To qualify under this option, your resume must contain sufficient detail to prove you have one year experience performing these duties.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above; therefore, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement for the GS-12 grade level.


2 Page Limit for Resume


4.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.

 Yes
 No


Certification Statement


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙