Position Title
Director
Agency
National Endowment for the Humanities
Announcement Number
26-13050130-DE-KB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the following descriptions, please select the one (1) statement that best describes your experience that qualifies you for the Director, GS-15 position.
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in Federal service. Specialized experience includes conducting humanities research, review of grant applications and oversight of active grants, program evaluation, humanities outreach, creation and administration of collaborative partnerships, planning and directing humanities programs, conducting high-level meetings and making presentations on the humanities, working with scholarly associations and other humanities organizations, allocating work and setting priorities for a professional staff, determining short- or long-term goals and strategies to achieve them – or other professional humanities work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility. All related experience must be performed in a leadership/supervisory capacity.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess an advanced degree (masters or beyond) in a discipline of the humanities from an accredited institution?
 Yes
 No


3.
As noted in the vacancy announcement, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
* Understand this warning;
* Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and
* Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙