Position Title
MATERIALS HANDLER SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12819575-AR-25- Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 19, 2025 to Wednesday, December 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at USPFO Supply and Services Division
 AOC 2: NG employees in the USPFO (This includes Internal Revenue, Contracting, Resource Management, and DPI)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O1 to O2, a Warrant Officer in the grade of WO1 to CW5, or an Enlisted Member in the grade of E6 to E9 in any branch of service?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training which demonstrates that the candidate has the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you have experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel? Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines? Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function? Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙