Position Title
Health System Administrator, (Health Services Administrator)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
NCR-26-13035962 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet ANY of these requirements, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Education:

Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study - hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration.

OR

Specialized Experience:

Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following:

Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems
Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups
Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.

Applicants must also possess:

Management ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, recognize and adapt to changing priorities; and
Knowledge of the interrelationships and interdependencies among various medical and administrative services and programs.

NOTE: Applicants must clearly address this professional experience in their resume to be found qualified.

OR

Special Provision for Inservice Placement:

Successful completion of an agency-sponsored on-the-job training program may be substituted for qualifying experience, provided it included a formal individualized training plan. Such a training program must have been conducted in an operating health care system and included:

Assignments providing a knowledge of basic health system administration philosophies, practices, and procedures, and basic government administrative policies and requirements;
Practical assignments providing an opportunity to apply health system administration skills and principles (as the individual progresses, work assignments must be characteristic of the grade level to which he or she is assigned); and
Oversight by an experienced health system administrator with periodic evaluation of the individual's progress and appropriate adjustment of the training program.
Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

In addition to the above requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the next lower level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Health Services Administrator position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.

You are the Health System Administrator for a correctional facility's Health Services Department. During the mid-year budget review, you discover that pharmaceutical costs have exceeded projections by 18% while medical supply expenditures are tracking 12% under budget. Simultaneously, your Quality Improvement Program data shows a 25% increase in chronic disease diagnoses requiring ongoing medication management. The clinical staff reports delays in receiving specialty consultation approvals, and your accreditation site visit is scheduled in four months. Senior leadership has asked for your plan to address these interconnected challenges.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate program management approach in this situation?

 Focus primarily on reducing medical supply costs by switching to less expensive alternatives and notifying clinical staff about the new products through an email announcement, while maintaining the current clinic scheduling system to avoid disrupting established routines.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of pharmaceutical utilization patterns and chronic disease protocols, reallocate the medical supply savings to offset pharmaceutical overages, negotiate enhanced vendor contracts for high-volume medications, streamline the specialty consultation approval process to improve clinical outcomes, integrate these changes into your Quality Improvement Program metrics, and present a detailed budget reconciliation with projected savings to leadership while ensuring all modifications support accreditation standards.
 Meet with the clinical team to discuss the pharmaceutical cost increases and specialty consultation delays, work with your finance office to transfer funds from the medical supply budget to cover the pharmaceutical shortfall, request that physicians review their prescribing patterns, and document these actions in preparation for the accreditation visit.
 Review the pharmaceutical expenditure reports to identify cost drivers, contact vendors to discuss pricing discrepancies and delivery schedules, prepare a written summary of the budget variance for your supervisor, update your department's policies regarding medication management, and schedule a meeting with staff to discuss the upcoming accreditation visit requirements.
 Implement immediate controls on pharmaceutical orders requiring advance approval for all medications over a certain cost threshold, redistribute medical supply funds to the pharmaceutical budget line, assign a staff member to track specialty consultation requests, and create a spreadsheet to monitor expenditures through the end of the fiscal year.
 None of the above


2.

Your correctional facility's Health Services Department is preparing for Joint Commission (JC) accreditation renewal in six months. During your preliminary internal audit, you identify several areas requiring attention: medication storage procedures do not fully align with

current JC pharmaceutical management standards, documentation practices for informed consent vary across clinical staff, infection control protocols need updates to reflect recent federal guidelines, and two clinical areas lack evidence of the required environmental safety checks. Additionally, state regulations have recently changed regarding mental health crisis intervention documentation. Your previous accreditation was successful, but these gaps could jeopardize renewal.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate regulatory compliance approach in this situation?

 Review the JC standards manual and recent federal guidelines, create a checklist of deficiencies for each clinical area, assign staff members to update the necessary documentation in their respective areas, schedule a follow-up meeting in three months to review progress, and ensure all updated policies are distributed to staff before the accreditation visit.
 Develop and implement a comprehensive corrective action plan addressing each identified deficiency with specific policies aligned to current JC standards, federal guidelines, and state regulations; conduct facility-wide training sessions on updated medication storage procedures, standardized informed consent documentation, revised infection control protocols, and new mental health crisis intervention requirements; establish a monitoring system with designated compliance officers for each clinical area; perform monthly mock surveys with documentation reviews; and implement a quality assurance process to sustain compliance beyond the accreditation cycle.
 Contact your Regional Health Services Administrator to report the deficiencies and request guidance on JC requirements, work with clinical supervisors to establish new policies for medication storage and informed consent procedures, implement the updated infection control protocols as outlined in the federal guidelines, and coordinate with staff to complete the required environmental safety checks before the site visit.
 Organize a meeting with clinical supervisors to discuss the internal audit findings, distribute copies of relevant JC standards and federal guidelines to department heads, request that each supervisor develop an action plan for their area, create a master tracking document to monitor implementation progress, and schedule quarterly check-ins to ensure all deficiencies are addressed prior to the accreditation visit.
 None of the above


3.

As Health System Administrator, you are facing a complex interdepartmental conflict. Two senior physicians disagree fundamentally on the treatment protocol for managing hepatitis C patients, creating tension among nursing staff who receive conflicting directions. The Chief Executive Officer of your correctional facility has expressed concerns about rising specialty care costs and is questioning the medical department's budget requests. Simultaneously, the Regional Medical Director has requested your participation in a multi-institution task force to standardize chronic care management across the region, and a local community hospital administrator has reached out about establishing a telemedicine partnership. All these stakeholders require your immediate attention and coordinated response.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate interpersonal relations approach in this situation?

 Schedule individual meetings with each physician to understand their clinical perspectives on hepatitis C protocols, facilitate a collaborative meeting with both physicians and the nursing supervisor to establish evidence-based consensus guidelines, prepare a comprehensive briefing for the Chief Executive Officer that includes cost-benefit analysis and projected outcomes of current medical programs, accept the Regional Medical Director's task force invitation and coordinate with the community hospital to evaluate the telemedicine partnership's potential impact on cost reduction and care quality, and present these integrated solutions at the next institution executive leadership meeting.
 Contact the Regional Medical Director to discuss the physician disagreement and request guidance on standardized hepatitis C protocols, meet with the Chief Executive Officer to provide an update on medical department activities and budget status, ask the senior physicians to review current treatment guidelines and reach agreement, respond to the community hospital administrator expressing interest in the telemedicine partnership, and participate in the regional task force as your schedule permits.
 Organize a department meeting to address the hepatitis C protocol disagreement and facilitate discussion among all clinical staff, prepare written documentation for the Chief Executive Officer explaining the medical department's budget needs and current expenditures, coordinate with other Health System Administrators who may be involved in the regional task force, and schedule a call with the community hospital administrator to gather more information about the telemedicine proposal.
 Review current medical literature on hepatitis C treatment to share with the physicians, arrange a meeting with the Chief Executive Officer and finance office to discuss the specialty care cost concerns, send communication to the Regional Medical Director confirming your task force participation, and forward the community hospital's telemedicine proposal to your clinical supervisors for their input and recommendations.
 None of the above


4.

You supervise a multi-disciplinary health services team of 18 staff members including nurses, medical records technicians, and administrative support personnel. You have observed that your senior medical records technician, who has been in the position for eight years, has exceptional analytical skills and frequently identifies process improvement opportunities, but she has expressed feeling stagnant in her current role. Meanwhile, your nursing staff productivity has declined over the past quarter, with several missing deadlines for required documentation. Two employees have submitted informal complaints about workload distribution, claiming assignments are inequitable. Additionally, one of your newer nurses has been making repeated procedural errors despite initial training, and staff morale appears low during team meetings. You need to address these interconnected personnel challenges while maintaining operational effectiveness.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate staff supervision and development approach in this situation?

 Conduct individual performance discussions with each staff member to understand their concerns and capabilities, recognize the medical records technician's analytical strengths by appointing her as lead for a departmental process improvement initiative and providing project management training, perform a comprehensive workload analysis and reorganize task distribution to ensure equitable assignments, implement a structured mentoring program pairing the newer nurse with an experienced preceptor for targeted skill development, establish weekly team huddles to improve communication and address concerns proactively, complete performance appraisals that include individualized development plans, and create ongoing internal training sessions on emerging health service topics to enhance staff engagement and professional growth.
 Meet with the medical records technician to discuss her career goals and explore potential advancement opportunities, review the nursing staff's documentation completion rates and provide guidance on meeting deadlines, investigate the workload distribution complaints by speaking with the involved employees and their supervisors, arrange for additional training for the newer nurse who is making procedural errors, and hold a team meeting to address morale concerns and encourage open communication.
 Schedule a one-on-one meeting with the medical records technician to acknowledge her contributions and discuss her interest in additional responsibilities, analyze the nursing documentation workflow to identify bottlenecks and prioritize critical tasks, meet with the employees who submitted complaints to understand their specific concerns about workload equity, assign an experienced nurse to provide additional guidance to the newer nurse on proper procedures, and monitor work completion to ensure deadlines are met going forward.
 Recognize the medical records technician's potential by assigning her additional analytical projects within her current role, prioritize the nursing staff's workload by identifying the most critical documentation requirements and adjusting deadlines where possible, review the task assignments to ensure work is distributed among available staff, provide counseling to the newer nurse on her performance issues with specific guidance for improvement, and track the department's overall workload completion to identify ongoing concerns.
 None of the above


5.

As Health System Administrator, you have multiple urgent written communication demands this week. The Bureau of Prisons Central Office has requested a detailed technical response to their inquiry about your facility's telemedicine implementation and its impact on specialty care costs, citing specific data and outcomes. Your facility's Clinical Director has asked you to draft a new comprehensive policy on chronic care management that will be distributed system-wide and must align with recent federal healthcare delivery standards. A patient's family attorney has submitted a formal complaint regarding alleged delays in emergency medical treatment, requiring a detailed written response with complete medical and administrative documentation. Additionally, the Regional Health Services Administrator needs your written input on proposed changes to pharmaceutical formulary protocols that will affect all institutions in your region, and your institution's Operational Review report just arrived with findings requiring a written corrective action response.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?

 Review the telemedicine data and prepare a comprehensive technical response to Central Office analyzing implementation costs, utilization patterns, and measurable outcomes with supporting documentation; independently draft the chronic care management policy incorporating current federal standards and clinical best practices with clear implementation procedures; prepare a detailed response to the attorney addressing the complaint with thorough documentation of the timeline, medical decisions, and administrative protocols followed; develop a substantive analysis of the pharmaceutical formulary changes with recommendations based on your facility's patient population and cost considerations; and draft a complete corrective action response to the Operational Review findings with specific remediation plans and compliance timelines.
 Gather relevant information from your medical and administrative staff regarding the telemedicine program and prepare a response to Central Office summarizing the key points, draft the chronic care management policy by reviewing and updating your institution's current supplement on the topic, coordinate with your Clinical Director to prepare written documentation responding to the attorney's complaint about the alleged treatment delays, prepare written input on the pharmaceutical formulary changes based on feedback from your clinical staff, and develop a written response to the Operational Review addressing the findings identified in the report.
 Compile telemedicine utilization reports and write a response to Central Office explaining your program's implementation status, work with clinical staff to develop content for the chronic care management policy and prepare the written draft, review the patient's medical records and prepare a written summary regarding the medical treatment provided for response to the attorney complaint, prepare a memorandum to the Regional Administrator with your thoughts on the pharmaceutical formulary protocol changes, and write a response to the Operational Review outlining steps your department will take to address the findings.
 Prepare a written summary of your telemedicine program's activities for Central Office including relevant cost information, update your existing chronic care procedures and format them into policy language for the new comprehensive policy, prepare written documentation reviewing the patient complaint details and your facility's medical procedures for the attorney response, draft written feedback on how the pharmaceutical formulary changes would affect your institution's medication management practices, and prepare written responses addressing each finding in the Operational Review report.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙