Position Title
Civil Engineer (HYDRAULICS)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12922374-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


COE
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 40% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 40% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Civil Engineer (Hydraulics) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Civil Engineer (Hydraulics) in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Civil Engineer (Hydraulics) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Advises on hydraulic and hydrologic engineering for the implementation of Corps Water Management System (CWMS). Develops hydraulic-hydrologic models to be used for risk management and, risk assessment for the purpose of evaluating the performance of USACE infrastructure projects. Conducts hydraulic-hydrologic engineering studies that require the use of steady and unsteady, and one to two dimensional numerical models such as HMS, RAS, Flow 2D.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


This position has a selective placement factor which must be met prior to employment and for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
This position requires the possession of a current Professional Engineer (PE) issued by any State in the United States, the District of Columbia,Guam, or Puerto Rico. Are you currently registered as a Professional Engineer issued by any one of the 50 states, or its territories? (You must attach current and valid documentation indicating your Professional Engineering registration number, the state in which you are registered, and the expiration date)
 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2

INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.

Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.

There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.

Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.



1.
You are tasked with developing and conducting a training seminar on advanced hydraulic modeling techniques for USACE district engineers who will be implementing new CWMS protocols. The seminar is scheduled for next month, but you've just learned that three key districts have significantly different baseline knowledge levels, and two districts are requesting virtual participation due to budget constraints. Additionally, your supervisor has asked you to incorporate recent policy changes that weren't finalized until this week. How do you proceed?

 Design tiered content delivery with basic and advanced tracks, coordinate with IT support for seamless virtual integration, and prepare comprehensive handouts covering the policy updates while scheduling individual district consultations for specialized needs.
 Restructure the seminar into modular sessions with prerequisite assessments, develop hybrid delivery methods accommodating both in-person and virtual participants, and create supplementary materials addressing the new policy changes while establishing follow-up technical support channels for ongoing questions.
 Proceed with the original seminar format but add extra time for questions, provide virtual access through standard conferencing tools, and distribute a separate memo about the policy changes after the training concludes.
 Postpone the seminar until all districts can attend in person, and the policy changes are fully documented, as effective training requires uniform participation and complete information to ensure proper CWMS implementation.
 Create standardized training materials targeting the average knowledge level, ensure reliable video conferencing capabilities for remote participants, and dedicate the final session to discussing the recent policy changes and their implementation requirements.


2.
Your team is developing a new hydraulic modeling tool for risk-informed decision-making regarding dam operations during extreme weather events. Initial testing reveals the model performs well under normal conditions but shows variability in extreme scenarios. The Risk Management Center is requesting the tool for an urgent assessment next month, while your preliminary analysis suggests additional validation is needed. District engineers are also requesting access for upcoming projects. What is your approach?

 Immediately release the tool to meet the urgent deadline since it performs adequately under normal conditions and address any extreme scenario issues through future updates based on real-world application feedback.
 Complete focused testing on the most critical extreme scenarios, document known limitations in user materials, and provide the tool for urgent applications while recommending conservative safety factors for uncertain conditions.
 Conduct accelerated validation testing focused on extreme scenarios, develop uncertainty quantification protocols for the current model version, and provide the tool with clearly documented limitations and recommended applications while establishing a timeline for enhanced version release.
 Implement additional validation procedures for extreme conditions, create comprehensive user guidance documenting model limitations, and release the tool with restricted applications while continuing development of improved algorithms for challenging scenarios.
 Release the current model version with standard documentation, recommend users apply engineering judgment for extreme scenarios, and continue validation testing while monitoring user feedback for potential issues.


3.
You are leading a complex international flood damage reduction study involving multiple stakeholders from three countries with different engineering standards and regulatory frameworks. The preliminary hydraulic analysis indicates that the most effective solution would require significant modifications to existing infrastructure in two countries, while the third country's representatives are advocating for a less effective but more politically acceptable alternative. The project deadline is approaching, and funding decisions depend on your technical recommendations. How do you proceed?

 Focus on the technically superior solution while preparing documentation of political constraints, recommend the optimal approach with notation of stakeholder concerns, and suggest that policy decisions be made by higher-level authorities based on the technical analysis.
 Recommend the politically acceptable alternative to ensure project continuation and international cooperation, noting that engineering compromises are sometimes necessary for successful international projects and that future phases can address technical optimizations.
 Complete thorough hydraulic analysis of both the optimal and politically preferred alternatives, document the technical trade-offs and associated risks, and provide recommendations that balance engineering effectiveness with implementation feasibility across the different regulatory environments.
 Conduct comprehensive comparative analysis of all alternatives including risk assessments and cost-benefit evaluations, facilitate technical workshops with international stakeholders to address engineering standard differences, and prepare recommendations that clearly articulate technical merits while acknowledging implementation challenges and proposing phased approaches.
 Develop detailed technical justifications for the optimal solution while creating alternative implementation strategies, coordinate with international partners to identify potential compromises on engineering standards, and present multiple scenarios with clear risk and effective comparisons.


4.
You are responsible for updating the curriculum for a critical USACE hydraulic engineering course that hasn't been revised in three years. Recent technological advances, new software tools, and updated Corps policies need to be incorporated. However, you've received feedback that the current course is already too intensive for the allocated time, and several districts have requested that practical field applications receive more emphasis. The course is scheduled to begin in six weeks with 30 registered participants from across USACE. What is your approach?

 Prioritize the most critical updates based on immediate operational needs, integrate new software tools through practical exercises, and extend certain topics into optional afternoon sessions while maintaining the core curriculum structure.
 Postpone the course until a complete curriculum overhaul can be accomplished, as attempting to integrate significant changes in six weeks would compromise educational quality and potentially confuse participants with incomplete information.
 Review current curriculum against new requirements and participant feedback, restructure content to emphasize hands-on applications of new technologies, and create supplementary online modules for theoretical background while focusing classroom time on practical implementation.
 Incorporate the most essential policy updates and new software demonstrations into existing slots, provide additional reference materials for self-study, and plan to address remaining updates in the next scheduled curriculum revision.
 Conduct rapid needs assessment with recent course participants and district supervisors, redesign the curriculum using modular learning objectives that integrate new technologies with practical applications, and develop blended learning approaches that include pre-course preparation and post-course follow-up to maximize contact time effectiveness.


5.
During a high-level briefing with district commanders and headquarters staff, you are asked to provide guidance on implementing new hydraulic engineering policies for CWMS projects. Mid-presentation, a district commander challenges your recommendations, citing conflicting guidance they received from another technical center. The room includes both supporters and skeptics of the new policies, and your response will significantly influence implementation across multiple districts. How do you handle this situation?

 Acknowledge the commander's concern professionally, request specific details about the conflicting guidance, explain the technical basis for your recommendations while noting areas requiring clarification, and propose immediate coordination with the other technical center to resolve discrepancies before implementation proceeds.
 Acknowledge that different technical centers may have varying perspectives, emphasize the thoroughness of your analysis, and recommend that districts follow the most recent guidance while noting that coordination between centers is ongoing.
 Thank the commander for raising the issue, clarifying the scope and authority of your recommendations versus other guidance, provide technical justification for the proposed approach, and suggest establishing a working group to harmonize guidance from different sources.
 Address the commander's concern directly by explaining the policy development process, highlight the technical advantages of your recommended approach, and offer to coordinate with the other technical center after the briefing to resolve any conflicts.
 Defend your recommendations by pointing out that your technical center has primary authority for these policies, suggest that the conflicting guidance may be outdated or misunderstood, and recommend that districts implement your guidance as the authoritative source.


6.
You are conducting a technical training class on advanced hydraulic modeling for a diverse audience including USACE civilian engineers, military personnel with varying technical backgrounds, and private sector infrastructure partners. During the session, it becomes apparent that the military participants need more fundamental background information, while the private sector attendees are seeking advanced applications beyond your planned curriculum. The civilian engineers are at the expected level. How do you adapt your instruction?

 Maintain the original curriculum to ensure consistency with course objectives, recommend that participants with insufficient background attend prerequisite courses, and suggest that those seeking advanced content enroll in specialized follow-up training.
 Restructure the remaining sessions to include foundational reviews followed by progressive complexity, utilize experienced participants as discussion leaders for advanced topics, and provide supplementary materials tailored to different experience levels.
 Continue with the planned curriculum while spending extra time on fundamental concepts, provide advanced participants with additional reading materials, and encourage informal knowledge sharing during breaks and group exercises.
 Implement real-time curriculum modification using tiered learning approaches, create breakout sessions that allow advanced participants to work on complex applications while providing foundational support to others, and establish peer-mentoring partnerships between participants with complementary knowledge levels.
 Adjust the pace to ensure foundational concepts are clear while incorporating advanced examples as optional case studies, encourage questions from all participants, and provide additional resources for both basic and advanced follow-up learning.


7.
You are managing a team of hydraulic engineers working on multiple CWMS projects with overlapping deadlines. Your most experienced engineer has just informed you that they've accepted a position with another agency and will leave in three weeks. Meanwhile, a critical project is behind schedule due to unexpected technical challenges, and two junior engineers are struggling with complex modeling requirements. District leadership is requesting status updates and expressing concern about project delays. How do you address this situation?

 Create comprehensive handover documentation with the departing engineer, reassign critical tasks based on team member strengths, implement additional technical support for complex modeling work, and provide district leadership with updated project schedules and mitigation strategies.
 Focus on completing knowledge transfer from the departing engineer, maintain current project assignments while providing additional oversight for struggling team members, and inform district leadership of potential delays while working to minimize impacts.
 Immediately assess project priorities and resource requirements, develop knowledge transfer protocols for the departing engineer, redistribute work based on individual capabilities while providing targeted mentoring for struggling team members, and establish clear communication channels with district leadership including realistic timeline adjustments.
 Work with the departing engineer to document ongoing projects and train replacement staff, adjust project assignments to match current team capabilities, and communicate revised timelines to district leadership while requesting additional resources if needed.
 Request that the departing engineers delay their departure until critical projects are completed, maintain current work assignments to avoid further disruption, and assure district leadership that the team will meet original deadlines through increased effort.


8.
Your team is executing a complex hydraulic analysis project that is falling behind the established Project Management Plan (PMP) schedule due to data quality issues discovered during the analysis phase. The original timeline assumed clean data inputs, but significant preprocessing is now required. Team members are working overtime, quality is beginning to suffer, and the client is requesting adherence to the original delivery date. The PMP budget is also being strained by the additional work required. How do you lead your team through this challenge?

 Analyze the additional work required for data preprocessing, redistribute tasks among team members to balance workload, modify the project schedule within PMP parameters where possible, and discuss timeline adjustments with the client while emphasizing quality maintenance.
 Conduct immediate project assessment to quantify data quality impacts, revise the PMP with realistic timelines and resource requirements, implement quality assurance checkpoints to prevent errors from overtime fatigue, and negotiate with the client regarding scope adjustments while maintaining team welfare and deliverable quality.
 Direct the team to work additional hours to meet the original deadline since the PMP represents a commitment to the client, streamline quality review processes to save time, and absorb the additional costs within the existing budget to maintain client satisfaction.
 Continue with the current approach while monitoring team performance, document the data issues for future reference, maintain communication with the client about potential delays, and adjust the PMP timeline if necessary to prevent quality compromise.
 Document the data quality issues and their impact on project scope, adjust team assignments to optimize efficiency while preventing burnout, update the PMP timeline and budget projections, and communicate with the client about necessary modifications to ensure quality deliverables.


9.
You are participating in a national conference where USACE is working with other federal agencies to establish new hydraulic engineering policies for climate change adaptation. During the discussions, you identify a significant technical flaw in the proposed approach that could lead to inadequate flood protection systems. However, the proposal has strong political support and challenging it could strain inter-agency relationships. Your input could influence policies affecting thousands of infrastructure projects nationwide. How do you proceed?

 Present the technical flaws to your immediate supervisor and USACE leadership, recommend that USACE take a cautious position on the proposed policies, and suggest that implementation be delayed until technical issues are resolved.
 Document the technical concerns with supporting analysis, work with colleagues to develop improved alternatives, present the issues through appropriate technical channels, and collaborate with other agencies to find solutions that meet both technical and policy requirements.
 Prepare comprehensive technical documentation of the identified flaws, propose alternative approaches that address the same policy objectives, engage in collaborative discussions with other technical experts to build consensus, and present solutions that maintain inter-agency cooperation while ensuring technical integrity.
 Support the proposed policies to maintain positive inter-agency relationships since political considerations often outweigh technical concerns in policy development, and plan to address technical issues through implementation guidance and future policy revisions.
 Raise the technical concerns during appropriate conference sessions, provide detailed analysis of potential consequences, suggest modifications to address the identified problems, and work with conference leadership to ensure technical issues receive proper consideration


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙