Position Title
Environmental Protection Specialist
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
ST-26-12979713-CAWV-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current, permanent employee with the U.S. Department of the Interior?  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• for career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Whiteriver, AZ
 C. Lakewood, CO
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Farmington, NM
 G. New Town, ND
 H. Anadarko, OK
 I. Pawhuska, OK
 J. Fort Duchesne, UT
 K. Fort Washakie, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Current or Former Federal Employees: Due weight will be given to performance appraisals and awards during the interview/selection process conducted by the hiring manager. If referred, all relevant documents including performance appraisals and awards submitted with your application package will be forwarded to the hiring official for review. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal, please submit an explanation as to why it is unavailable and attach as a document.


3.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP) or equivalent plan to improve my performance.
 Yes, I am on a plan to improve my performance.
 No, I am not on a plan to improve my performance.


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references appropriate. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS


1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-12. Your resume must support the response that you select.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include work that demonstrates performing analytical duties associated with planning, developing, executing, and reviewing environmental policies and procedures related to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA); using analytical techniques to modify or adapt established environmental protection procedures; performing site inspections to assess and identify barriers to project development; preparing, arranging, or reviewing documents required for NEPA compliance, such as environmental assessments, environmental impact statements, biological assessments, and categorical exclusions; recommending corrective or mitigation actions for compliance; synthesizing complex environmental information from diverse sources for inclusion in documents understandable to the public; serving as a senior advisor to management on requirements of environmental compliance and planning; and conducting environmental training and presentations.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-13. Your resume must support the response that you select.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include serving as an expert on the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and other environmental laws, including the interpretation and application of regulations, executive orders, or policies, to perform comprehensive environmental review on developmental activities on Indian trust lands; experience in environmental compliance, environmental management systems and sustainability programs; writing environmental impact statements, environmental assessments and categorical exclusions; dealing with multiple permitting agencies at the local, state, tribal, and federal levels; and preparing technical reports for inspections, investigations and remedial actions.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY: As previously explained, your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your experience. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Certification of Information Accuracy - If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration from this position.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above. No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


APPLICANT RESPONSIBILITY: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans or Indian preference documentation, assessment questions and answers, and SF 50's) is received and is accurate.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙