Position Title
Government Information Specialist
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
OIG-26-12944320 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to Apr 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current NSF OIG employee who holds a competitive service position at the same or higher grade than the position being announced? 
 

If you answered yes, you must submit your SF-50. 

 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a current NSF OIG employee who holds a competitive service position at a lower grade than the position being announced? 

If you answered yes to this question, you must submit your SF-50.

 Yes
 No


4.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan(CTAP).

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility.
Note: Your proof of eligibility must show the position, grade level, and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated, and your full performance level or career ladder. To ensure you fulfill this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility. Visit OPM's ICTAP or CTAP page for more information on eligibility and required documentation.

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets one of the following Merit Promotion eligibilities:
Current career or career-conditional federal employee applying for a PROMOTION or TRANSFER to a position with a higher grade or pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
Former career or career-conditional federal employee with "Status" applying for REINSTATEMENT to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
Note: Also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy. Visit USAJOBS for more information on eligibility.

If you are separated from Federal Government employment, you may obtain a copy of your SF-50 via the Federal Records Center, National Archives and Records Administration.

Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as a status applicant and/or reinstatement eligible?
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is eligible for a non-competitive appointment under EO 13473, Appointment of Military Spouses?

You may be eligible if you:
Are married to an active duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days OR 
Are the spouse of a service member who is 100%disabled due to a service-connected injury OR
Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty.
You are required to support your claim with the documents below:
All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate).AND If you are married to an active duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days OR If you are a spouse of a 100%disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter) OR If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).

NOTE: Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment if eligible based on 100% disability due to service or as an un-remarried widow/widower of a service member killed while on active duty. For morei nformation please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. Failure to provide documentation that fully supports your claim will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets one of the following non-competitive eligibilities:
Current career or career-conditional federal employee applying for REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, REPROMOTION, or TRANSFER, and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade or pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
Former career or career-conditional federal employee with status, applying for REINSTATEMENT, and you previously held a position with the same grade or pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy. Visit USAJOBS for more information on eligibility.

If you were separated from Federal Government employment, you may obtain a copy of your SF-50 via the Federal Records Center, National Archives and Records Administration.

Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as a non-competitive or reinstatement eligible? *
 Yes
 No


9.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability [5CFR 213.3102(u)] appointment?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities.

Check the required documents section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a 30% or more disabled veteran?

If so, you may be eligible to be considered for a non-competitive temporary appointment. Under this eligibility, you may be converted to a permanent position, but conversion is not guaranteed. To be eligible, you must:
Be a disabled veteran rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 percent or more; OR, be a disabled veteran who retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more.

Submit the appropriate documentation listed in the SF-15:
Documentation of Service and Separation (e.g., DD-214); AND
Documentation of Compensable Service-Connected Disability (10% or more) (e.g., VA Letter).
Submission of the SF-15 is not required.This documentation must be submitted with your application package before the announcement closes. Select"Yes" to this eligibility question.

Based on the above, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for a non-competitive temporary appointment as a 30% disabled veteran? *
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you: 
Have a rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
Retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Copy indicating character of service), or other proof of your service which includes the character of service.
Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Armed Services and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15. 

For more information, please see: https://www.opm.gov/fedshirevets/hiring-officials/strategic-recruitment-and-hiring/veterans/
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.




1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-14 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Government Information Specialist position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service where at least 75% of my duties include: processing FOIA/PA requests for access to records; conducting searches for records; determining whether records are responsive to the request; communicating with requesters, both orally and in writing; making determinations or recommendations regarding disclosure of material; researching and analyzing issues contained in responsive records and providing recommendations for action; and researching applicable points of law and summarizing substantive information from statutes, case law, etc..
 I do not have the experience described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



1.
Select any and all privileges that commonly fall within Exemption 5 of the FOIA.
 A. Attorney-Client Privilege
 B. Doctor-Patient Privilege
 C. Attorney Work-Product Privilege
 D. Executive Privilege for National Security
 E. Deliberative Process Privilege


2.
Which one of these items was formally added to the law as part of the 2016 FOIA amendments:
 Foreseeable Harm Standard
 Personal Harm Standard
 Investigatory Harm Consideration
 Exemption Doctrine


3.
Select any and all items that would be relevant to the application of Exemption 6:
 A. Public Interest
 B. Balancing Test
 C. Classified Information
 D. Confidential Commercial Information
 E. Privacy Interest


4.
How many days does an agency have to respond to a FOIA request; a request for expedited treatment?
 21 Days; 14 Days for Expedition
 25 Days; 15 Days for Expedition
 20 Days; 10 Days for Expedition
 60 Days; 30 Days for Expedition


5.
Which two FOIA exemptions are the most similar to each other
 Exemptions 4 and 5
 Exemptions 1 and 8
 Exemptions 6 and 7(C)
 Exemptions 2 and 7(A)


6.
If a law enforcement investigation has closed, which of the following exemptions could still apply (assuming they applied before the investigation was closed)? Select all that could still apply.
 A. Exemption 6
 B. Exemption 1
 C. Exemption 7(C)
 D. Exemption 7(E)


7.
If a requester challenges both the adequacy of the search and the application of exemptions, which of the following BEST reflects the purpose of the administrative appeal process?
 To provide the requester an opportunity to refine arguments before pursuing litigation.
 To conduct a de novo review of the initial determination, including reassessing the adequacy of the search, application of exemptions, and any foreseeable harm.
 To confirm whether the agency followed proper procedures and timeliness in responding to the requester.
 To compile a complete administrative record to support the agency’s position in litigation


8.
If a requester files an appeal alleging the agency's explanations are insufficient and requesting a Vaugh index, must the agency provide one?
 Yes, the agency must provide a Vaughn index for each appeal.
 Yes, the agency must provide a Vaughn index when a requester alleges insufficient explanations on appeal.
 No, the agency does not need to provide a Vaughn index, as it is primarily a litigation tool.
 No, a Vaughn index is not used at any stage in the FOIA request or litigation process.


9.
In routine FOIA matters, when it comes to preliminary decision-making with regard to the application of FOIA exemptions, as well as the initiating and conducting of consultation with or referrals to other FOIA offices, do you possess a high level of independence without the need for supervisory review?
 My work is monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures at every stage.
 Although my supervisor might do a final review before making a final determination, my work in routine and preliminary stages generally does not need to be reviewed by a supervisor.


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙