Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
CBYM-26-13041879-DE-EP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kennebunk, ME
 B. Orland, ME


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-7/9, position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your to you experience and qualifications.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-09 position. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank- you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the federal service. Specialized experience may include: Performing budget preparation/execution duties, e.g., estimates, projections, financial tracking, monitoring, reconciling and reporting; purchasing of supplies and/or equipment; acting as a primary point-of-contact for an organization for all administrative issues, e.g., processing personnel actions, records management, time and attendance, travel, etc.
 I possess master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. This degree is in a related field, such as Business Administration or Public Administration and that provided the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform this work.
 I possess an equivalent combination of specialized experience and directly related graduate level education as described in A and B above that, when computed as percentages of their respective requirements, equals at least 100% when combined. Only graduate education beyond the first year is creditable to meet this standard.
 I do not posses the experience and or education described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for the Administrative Officer, GS-0341-07 position. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank- you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience may include: Assisting with all tasks and activities dealing with budget formulation, budget execution and tracking, and end-of-year closeout. Provides advice and guidance to managers in budget and finance areas. Assists in budget formulation, prepare projections and estimates and directs and/or enters data into appropriate forms. Reviews rules, regulations, policies, and procedures for budget submissions to ensure compliance. Performs basic analytical techniques required to formulate the budget. Relates program goals and priorities to levels of timing of funding. Analyzes funding needs and actual or potential problem areas, trends, deficiencies, areas of imbalance, etc.
 I possess one full academic year of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Master's Degree or Master's equivalent graduate degree with major study related to the position being filled. One year of graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school has determined to represent 1 year of full time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours is considered as satisfying the 1 year of study requirement.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree in a directly related field AND meet one of the following: (1) Class Standing: rank in the upper 3rd of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, based on the completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (GPA): earn a GPA of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on 4 years of education, or based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum -or- (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field, or the required courses completed during the final two years. Note: GPA will be rounded to one decimal place, for example, 2.95 = 3.0, 2.94 = 2.9; OR (3) Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society.
 I possess a combination of education and experience described above. Education must include courses directly related to the work of the position
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/ or education as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙