Position Title
TRAINING TECHNICIAN
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12968186-AF-26-020 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5  - E7?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E5  - E7.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E5  - E7.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience that includes knowledge in training centers, training programs, schools, and units. Experience in conducting or developing education and training programs. Experience conducting, supervising, or developing education or training programs. An understanding of the Army or Air Force education and training policy requirements. Experiences in working programs to include developmental education, voluntary education, advanced academic education, promotion testing, and libraries. Knowledge of audio-visual presentation, educational tests, and measurements, and instructing techniques.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Knowledge of Army or Air Force education and training programs regarding their principles and procedures. Experience in performing interviews and counseling techniques; training techniques and instruction methods; task analysis procedures, learning processes, curriculum development, training evaluations,  and education and training systems and products; effective writing skills; editing practices; instructional media application, training reporting, program and curriculum validation, and implementation procedures. Experience in scheduling training events and facilities; supporting assistance visits and training meetings; or assisting in work center and individual job qualification standard development; education institution registration requirements; and military personnel classification system and policies. Experience in the capabilities of communicative interpersonal skill applications and distance learning concepts. Experience as a participant and presenter during training and military or civilian conference events.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience managing, coordinating, and executing formal training programs.


4.
Describe your background in managing organizational budgets and acting as a resource advisor, specifically concerning training, travel, or personnel workdays.


5.
Describe your experience analyzing complex documents and regulations to advise senior leadership on resource prioritization and strategic objectives.


6.
Describe your experience serving as a primary liaison among diverse organizational levels to resolve complex operational or training issues.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙