Position Title
Lead Accountant
Agency
Armstrong Flight Research Center
Announcement Number
AFRC-26-IMP-12920248-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please carefully review and answer the questions below regarding your current status as a NASA employee. To be considered for this vacancy announcement, you must: meet one of the eligibilities below; answer "yes" to one of the eligibility questions; and, as part of your application, submit the required documents to support your claim. You will typically submit a Notification of Personnel Action Standard Form 50 (SF-50), which can be found in your electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF). You will only be considered for claimed eligibilities that are supported by your submitted documents. If you answer "no" to all of the eligibility questions, your application will be found ineligible for this position, as this means you have self-identified that you do not meet the requirements in the "This job is open to…" section of the vacancy announcement. Please be advised that NASA HR Staff rely on applicants' careful consideration and responses to the questions. If you make a mistake in answering "no" to all of the questions or respond "yes" only to eligibilities that you do not have, NASA HR staff will not change the responses you submit as a part of your application.


1.
Are you a current NASA federal employee serving on a career or career conditional appointment, whose permanent grade and promotion potential are both lower than the grade of the promotion potential listed in the announcement?

If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment, you can review your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1)
To find your promotion potential, you can review your latest promotion, reassignment or appointment SF-50.

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position that meets the time in grade requirements for the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NASA federal employee serving on a career or career conditional appointment, whose permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, OR whose permanent promotion potential is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement?

If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment and/or if your permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, you can review your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1); AND
your permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement.
If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment and/or if your permanent promotion potential is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, you can review your most recent appointment of promotion SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1); AND
a remark in block 45 that states, "Full performance level of employee's position is (pay plan and grade)". The listed grade must match the promotion potential listed in the announcement.
If you answer yes to one of these questions, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position at the same or greater grade or promotion potential as the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current NASA federal employee on a term appointment under the NASA Flexibility Act of 2004 with current eligibility to convert to a permanent appointment?

If you are unsure if you are on an eligible term appointment, you can review your SF-50 that documents your term appointment. This SF-50 must reflect:
in block 5-B, Term Appt NTE, AND
in block 45, a remark that states "Employee has competed under an announcement offering the potential for conversion to permanent appointment under P.L. 108-201, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 9806."
If your term appointment SF-50 contains the remark above, you also must have completed at least two years of continuous service under a term appointment AND your performance rating must be at least fully successful.
If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both the SF-50 that documents your term appointment, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position that meets the time in grade requirements for the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current NASA federal employee on a current Schedule A appointment for individuals with disabilities?

If you are unsure if you are on a current Schedule A appointment for individuals with disabilities, you can review your SF-50 that documents your excepted appointment. This SF-50 must reflect:
in block 5-B, Exc Appt or Exc Appt NTE, AND
in block 5-C, WUM, WTA or WTB.
If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in your Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA?

If you are unsure if you are eligible, confirm the following:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
If you answer yes to this question you must submit the following:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent SF- 50 that includes your position title and grade.
For more information on qualifying conditions for CTAP you may go to: The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marshall Space Flight Ctr, Huntsville, AL
 B. Armstrong Flight Research Ctr, Edwards AFB, CA
 C. Ames Research Ctr, Moffett Field, CA
 D. Jet Propulsion Lab, Pasadena, CA
 E. NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC
 F. Kennedy Space Ctr, Kennedy Space Center, FL
 G. Michoud Assembly Facility, New Orleans, LA
 H. Goddard Space Flight Ctr, Greenbelt, MD
 I. NASA Shared Services, Bay Saint Louis, MS
 J. Stennis Space Ctr, Stennis Space Center, MS
 K. White Sands Test Facility, Las Cruces, NM
 L. Goddard Inst./Space Studies, New York, NY
 M. Glenn Research Ctr, Cleveland, OH
 N. Neil Armstrong Test Facility, Sandusky, OH
 O. Johnson Space Ctr, Houston, TX
 P. Columbia Sci. Balloon Facility, Palestine, TX
 Q. Langley Research Ctr, Hampton, VA
 R. Wallops Flight Facility, Wallops Island, VA
 S. Katherine Johnson IV&V, Fairmont, WV


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education meets the requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing") OR I have a combination of education and experience: Have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. Your background must also include one of the following: 1. 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; 2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or 3. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) you has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that you have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, your education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not have the education described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Participating on a financial team providing financial and/or accounting guidance on process and policy issues and; Applying federal accounting principles, practices and/or procedures in order to review, interpret and Applying professional accounting standards, concepts, policies and requirements in accordance with Federal and Agency guidelines.
 I do not have the experience described above.


WRITTEN INTERVIEW INSTRUCTIONS:
This technical assessment consists of scenario-based questions that ask you to describe your technical experience in three (3) areas.

Response Requirements
For each question, give a specific, factual example from your actual work or education experience. Focus your response on the situation, your actions, and the outcome. Ensure your responses are clear and concise. Each response will be limited to 700 characters or less (including spaces).

Verification Requirements
For each response, you are required to identify a supervisor who can verify the experience you described. You will provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who is familiar with the specific situation in your response.

Assessment Evaluation
Your responses will be reviewed and the results of the evaluation will determine whether you advance to the next step in the hiring process, so ensure your responses accurately reflect your capabilities and most relevant experiences.

Assessment Integrity
When completing this assessment, use your own words and work independently. Do NOT use outside help or assistance from others, and do NOT consult artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Copilot, or similar platforms and applications. Your responses must reflect your own knowledge, experience, and writing.


3.
Written Interview Question 1: Describe a time when you performed a reconciliation between a control account and its subsidiary records. What was the situation, what steps did you take to identify and resolve discrepancies, and what was the final outcome?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


3a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


4.
Written Interview Question 2: Describe a situation where you used accounting or financial systems, tools, or reports to analyze data and identify a problem. What analysis did you perform, what actions did you take to address the issue, and what was the outcome?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


4a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


5.
Written Interview Question 3: Provide an example of when you helped improve a financial process or resource management practice. What problem were you addressing, what strategy or solution did you implement, what actions did you take, and what were the results?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


5a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


Certification


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙