Position Title
Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
NED-26-RP-12993274 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Hartford, CT
 B. Indianapolis, IN
 C. Togus, ME
 D. Boston, MA
 E. Detroit, MI
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. Cleveland, OH
 H. Philadelphia, PA
 I. Pittsburgh, PA
 J. Providence, RI
 K. White River Junction, VT
 L. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Veterans Service Representative (GS-0996-07/09/10) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume, application and responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capabilities. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.



AREA OF CONSIDERATION REQUIREMENTS

This vacancy is open ONLY to permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees who are currently assigned to the Regional Office they are applying to AND Veterans Affairs (VA) employees who are CTAP eligible. 

Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.



1.
Do you meet the Area of Consideration Requirements as described above?


 Yes, I am a current, permanent VBA employee that is applying to a station that I am assigned to and I will submit my SF-50 as defined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.
 No. I do not meet the Area of Consideration Requirements as described above.



TIME-IN GRADE REQUIREMENTS

The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In Grade requirements for the Veterans Service Representative (GS-0996-07/09/10) position.. Select the response that best represents your eligibility for this position. 

To qualify for the GS-0996-07 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-05 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.
To qualify for the GS-0996-09 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-07 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.
To qualify for the GS-0996-10 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-09 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.

Note: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion or with-in grade increase SF-50 (NOT an award or general adjustment SF-50) as defined in the "Required Documents" section of this job announcement.  Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility.



2.
For the GS-0996-07 position, do you have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-05 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement?

 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-05 level or above by the closing date of this announcement.
 No, I do not have 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-05 level or above by the closing date of this announcement.


3.
For the GS-0996-09 position, do you have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-07 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-07 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of experience in the federal service at the GS-07 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement?.


4.
For the GS-0996-10 position, you must have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-09 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-09 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of experience in federal service at the GS-09 level or above by the closing date of this job announcement.



MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

To qualify for the Veterans Service Representative (GS-0996-07/09/10) position, you must have at least one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience, qualifying education or a combination of the two.

The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.



5.

To qualify for the GS-0996-07 position you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level or higher in the federal service.  Specialized experience is defined as the interpretation or application of laws, regulations, or procedures to analyze evidence to make determinations and research routine issues to resolve discrepancies.  Examples of experience include:

Using various computer systems for data entry and maintaining/monitoring case files.
Applies use of federal laws when processing compensation and benefit claims for a state or federal agency, insurance company, worker's compensation, disability, retirement or pension programs;
Determines basic employment qualifications and eligibility for benefit programs
OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience.  To qualify based on education you must have:
One full year of graduate level education.  Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position; OR 
A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher).  Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1.) class standing, 2.) grade point average or 3.) honor society membership. 
OR

Combining Education & Experience: If you do not fully meet the length of experience and education described for a specific grade level (e.g. have six months of experience and some coursework but not a degree), the two can be combined to total 100% of the requirement. Click here for more information.

Based on the description above, does your experience/education qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative GS-0996-07 position?  Please select the answer that best describes your qualifications.
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience in the federal service equivalent to at least the GS-05 level or higher.
 Yes, I have earned a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher) or I have completed one full year of graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work. Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. (For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov)
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B", which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
To qualify for the GS-0996-09 position you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher in the federal service.  Specialized experience is defined as experience which requires the interpretation of legal and medical documentation to determine the claimant's eligibility for services and benefits programs. Examples of specialized experience include:
Determining the eligibility for Federal or State-administered benefits, such as disability, education, housing, medical, and/or Veterans' benefits;
Interpreting and applying Federal and State laws, including case law, existing statutes and procedures, and precedent rulings, to process claims pertaining to a service program;
Gathering and requesting evidence to build service program case files, respond to claimant inquiries and identify errors, inconsistencies, or omissions;
Explaining Federal or State claims decisions to claimants, special interest groups, dependents and/or representatives in an effort to gain acceptance of the determination.
OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience.  To qualify based on education you must have:
A master's or equivalent graduate degree in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university; OR 
2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or possession of an LL.B. or J.D. degree, if related.  Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position.  
OR

Combining Education & Experience: If you do not fully meet the length of experience and education described for a specific grade level (e.g. have six months of experience and some coursework but not a degree), the two can be combined to total 100% of the requirement. Click here for more information.

Based on the description above, does your experience/education qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative GS-0996-09 position?  Please select the answer that best describes your qualifications.
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience in the federal service equivalent to at least the GS-07 level or higher.
 Yes, I have earned a master’s or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


7.
To qualify for the GS-0996-10 position you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher in the federal service. Specialized experience is defined as demonstrating competence in adjudicating Veterans' claims. Specialized experience is typically gained in positions that involve the development, examination, investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for disability compensation, disability pension, death compensation, death pension benefits, life insurance benefits, etc. Such experience is to be substantive and relevant and requires a high degree of independence and judgment in the interpretation of more complex legal and medical documentation to determine claimant's eligibility and supporting evidence for services and benefits. 
OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience.  To qualify based on education you must have:
Two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D, or equivalent doctoral degree.  Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. 

OR

Combining Education & Experience: If you do not fully meet the length of experience and education described for a specific grade level (e.g. have six months of experience and some coursework but not a degree), the two can be combined to total 100% of the requirement. Click here for more information.

Based on the description above, does your experience/education qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative GS-0996-10 position?  Please select the answer that best describes your qualifications.
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience in the federal service equivalent to at least the GS-09 level or higher
 Yes, I have earned a Doctoral or equivalent Ph.D. degree or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree (Ph.D.) and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and doctorate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT

Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this occupational questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙