Position Title
AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12926404-AR-26-072 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to May 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E7 and below)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (AASF #1) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (AASF #1) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-8602-10 Aircraft Engine Mechanic.
 I HAVE experience or training 1) that has provided me the ability to perform assembly and disassembly operations and make prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories in accordance with technical specifications, procedures and requirements, and 2) using hand and power tools common to the trade.
 I DO NOT HAVE above listed experience or training.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WG-8602-10 Aircraft Engine Mechanic.
 I HAVE at least 18 months experience or training 1) performing standard, routine assembly and disassembly operations and making prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories, 2) performing maintenance overhaul, troubleshooting, testing, and repair of aircraft engines, engine components, and power trains for fixed and/or rotary wing aircraft, and 3) determining maintenance needed from work orders, inspection reports, historical record, and by own diagnosis.
 I DO NOT have at least 18 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙