Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY) Title 32
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13067087-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Army National Guard in the ranks listed below.


2.
Are you one of the ranks listed below?
 Yes, I am a E-4/SPC not to exceed E-6/MSG
 No, I do not possess one of the above listed ranks.


For Dual-Status Technician positions service affiliation under Title 32 USC 709 is required. Military skill set is determined by AFSC/MOS requirements. Upon selection, individuals must be assigned to a compatible military AFSC/MOS per statutes and National Guard Bureau regulations and must obtain/maintain all requirements of the AFSC/MOS.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments?

MOS/AFSC: 42A

 Yes
 No


4.
Please type your current rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



5.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Specialized Experience Human Resource Specialist, GS-0201-09 position.
 I have at least 1 year equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7) with knowledge of, and skill in applying, fundamental military human resource management principles and practices; and standardized analytical and evaluative methods and techniques in order to provide technical expertise and guidance as well as management advisory services to resolve factual and procedural issues within the particular area of assignment. In-depth knowledge of applicable regulations relating to the field of military human resources management and the area of assignment. Knowledge of the organizational structure and requirements of the ARNG for that State suitable to provide advice to commanders, unit administrators, and military members concerning the area of program specialty. Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing, with individuals, supervisors, and management.
 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. If you are using education to qualify for this position, you must provide transcripts to support your educational claims.
 I have a combination of experience and education. Combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements. If you are using education to qualify for this position, you must provide transcripts to support your educational claims.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret Security clearance?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret Security clearance within a year of employment?

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? If yes, please upload a copy of your orders.

 Yes
 No


9.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙