Position Title
Nurse (Clinical/Community-Occupational Health)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-26-13070282-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Nurse (Clinical/Community-Occupational Health) position with the Department of the War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical/Community-Occupational Health) at the GS-0610-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor's degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained; OR if you are a graduate from a foreign nursing school, official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts or your certificate from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
The nurse occupation requires passing the National Council Licensure Examination and possession of a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States. Do you possess an active, current registration as a professional nurse in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? (Note: You must attach a copy of your registration.)

 Yes
 No


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Nurse (Clinical/Community-Occupational Health) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have at least one year of professional nursing experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes formulating guidance such as policies, procedures, directives or programs in support of community/public health, evaluating health education programs, and serve on special groups/initiatives related to community/public health improvement.
 I have successfully completed a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙