Position Title
FUL-Seasonal Archeologist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1547-SR-26-12948069-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Ala Kahakai National Historical Trail is defined as 75 miles from Hawai'i County, Hawai'i. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. A driver's license cannot be used as a proof of residency. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


2.
To qualify based on education, you must submit a legible copy of transcripts from an accredited institution with your name, school name, credit hours, course level, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. Transcripts do not need to be official, but if you are selected for this position and you used your education to qualify, you must provide official transcripts before you begin work.

If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet qualification requirements, you must show that your education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement; and I have provided this information with my application package if applicable. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.
 No, I do not certify and understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.


3.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


Assessment 1
This position has a Basic Education Requirement. Your responses to the Basic Education Requirements, Specialized Experience questions, as well as the other questions in the questionnaire, in conjunction with the information provided in your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. It is your responsibility to show how you satisfy the above course requirements. If you do not provide information that clearly shows how your completed college course work meets all of the requirements, you will be rated ineligible. Your rating will be based solely on the information you submit with your application. If you select leave a required question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.


1.
From the description below, select the one response that best describe how your background meets the basic requirements for an Archeologist, GS-0193.

 Education - I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree or higher that included 3 semester hours of EACH of the following course areas: History of Archeology; Archeology of a major geographical area such as North America or Africa; Regional archeology, archaeological cultures, or sites in a specific part or portion of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development; Theory and methods of archeology (methods include, but are not limited to, typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, and analytical techniques); AND Archaeological field school, to provide a basic understanding of theoretical and practical approaches to research design implementation, field preservation techniques, and report preparation by participation in actual field work; AND six semester hours of related course work in: geography, geology, or cultural geography; history, historiography, or historical archeology; environmental studies; scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); or surveying; OR Related Curriculum: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's degree or higher in anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or related discipline, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements stated above (including archaeological field school).
 Combination of Education and Experience - I have a combination of education and experience that provides knowledge equivalent to that described in A above, plus appropriate additional education or technical experience to total 4 years. This combination demonstrates that I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform the work of an archaeologist comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study.
 Experience - I have four years of archaeological work experience that demonstrates a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. The work experience must have included archeology field experience, which may include that gained in an archeological field school. Field experience should have included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials.. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher-level archaeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archaeological project.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for an Archeologist, GS-0193-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection.

 I have at least one year of professional archeological experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience is experience applying the theories, principles, practices, and techniques of archeology to the conduct of prehistoric and historic archeological field investigations and cultural resource projects in the American West which included the preparation of survey reports, site recording forms, site maps, overlays, field notes, and using GPS and GIS. GS-07 Archeological Technician experience is NOT qualifying for this minimum qualification.
 I have two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or completion of all requirements for a masters or equivalent graduate degree. To be qualifying, graduate study must have been in archeology, anthropology, or other closely related field. The total education offered to meet this provision must have provided you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the work of this position. To receive credit, you should describe how their specific course work, research projects, dissertation, theses, etc. demonstrate the ability to perform the duties of this position. (Eighteen semester hours or 27 quarter hours or the number of credit hours the school attended has determined to represent one year of full-time study is considered to be equal to one full year of graduate education.)
 I possess an equivalent combination of education and graduate experience as described above. Note: Only graduate education in excess of one year is creditable for combination.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙