Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
317-26-JNM-13041294-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Saint Petersburg, FL
 B. Sunrise, FL


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describes your experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open to current, permanent VBA employees and Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible only.


1.
Are you a current, permanent VA employee or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am a current, permanent VA employee and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. Your responses will be subject to verification. You must provide SF-50s to prove time in grade. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks' time in-grade. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your most recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit and SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time in-grade.


2.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-5 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Program Specialist at the GS-07 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-5 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-5 level.


3.
At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-07 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Program Specialist at the GS-09 level?
 Yes, I have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-7 level.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks of federal service at the GS-7 level.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of specialized experience and/or education that qualifies you for the Program Specialist position at the GS-07 level.

Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-5). In addition to the skills for the (GS-05) level, specialized experience at the GS-7 level is defined as responsible for human services or general office administration. Performing clerical work involving the use of various computer applications, to include email, MS Office programs, and various case management applications.  Gather information to provide customer service and make decisions on program eligibility, communicate with program participants/customers via phone, in-person, and email regarding program benefits and services.  Organize work to ensure accurate recordkeeping in an electronic system is maintained, distribute mail received from email or an electronic mail delivery system, and schedule appointments. Use interpersonal skills to work in a collaborative and tactful manner with social service professionals and customers in the delivery of services.

OR 
Education substitution of 1 full year of graduate level education OR Superior Academic Achievement (SAA). SAA is based on a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0; class standing in the upper third of graduating class; or election to membership in a national scholastic honor society 


OR 
Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate level education. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 


4.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in federal service as described above?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level, GS-05 as described above.
 I have 1 year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however combined my experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification. To do so, first calculate the percentage of qualifying education you have as a percentage of the education required. Next, calculate the percentage of specialized experience you have as a percentage of the experience required. Then, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% for you to qualify for the position at the GS-07 grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at the GS-07 level.
 My experience and/or education is not described in statements A, B, or C above


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and or education that qualifies you for the Program Specialist position at the GS-09 grade level.

Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7). In addition to the skills for the GS-7 level, specialized experience at the GS-9 level must document experience working with Veteran Readiness and Employment programs, experience working with fiscal, contracting or monetary benefits and procedures, and experience using case management software and providing administrative support in a benefit delivery office. 

OR 
Education substation of a Master's or equivalent graduate degree; or Two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LLB. or J.D., if related. 

OR 
Applicants may combine education and experience to qualify at the GS-09 grade level: When substituting you can only use graduate level education you have earned.


5.
Do you have at least 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in federal service?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level, GS-07 as described above.
 I have master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as an LL. B or J.D.) from an accredited college or university, or two full years (36 semester hours or 54 quarter hours) of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however combined my experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification. To do so, first identify the education you have earned beyond your first year of study as a percentage of a total of two years of study. Then identify the number of months of specialized experience you have as a percentage of 12 months. Add the two percentages. The total must equal at least 100 percent in order to be qualifying. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at the GS-9 level.
 My experience and/or education is not described in statements A, B, or C above


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙