Position Title
SUPERVISORY FACILITY OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-13013938-AF-26-196-C Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Conisderation
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Air National Guard?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E8 through E9?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess the experience, education or training which demonstrates the knowledge of, and skill in applying, a comprehensive range of principles, concepts, and practices concerning equipment, facility, or service operations with complicated technical requirements that have no clear precedent or plan; experience overseeing and implementing a program involving the identification and resolution of difficult issues or problems; experience preparing budgets based on plans for maintenance, repair work, new construction alteration projects, replacement of existing equipment, or increase in services and processes to ensure program effectiveness?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Responsible for the sustained reliability of Real Property Facilities in support of ANG organizations. Establishes and executes work involving the planning and directing of comprehensive programs for the operation, maintenance, repair, and improvement of Government facilities for the wing Operation and Maintenance (O&M) programs. Provides critical input to the Base Civil Engineer (BCE), through the CE Commander Facility Investment Matrix (FIM), Base Master Plan, Space Utilization Plan, Asset Management Plans (AMP), S-Files and Facility Utilization Board (FUB) agendas. Prepares, develops and defends operating and maintenance resources for Fiscal Year Defense Plan (FYDP), requirements to the Planning, Programming and Budgeting Systems (PPBS). 
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙