Position Title
Veterans Claims Examiner (Training/Quality Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-12972375-26-VW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Buffalo Regional Office of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee of the Buffalo Regional Office of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) as described above or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am a current permanent Buffalo Regional Office VBA employee and will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my status.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and I will submit my CTAP documentation to verify my status.
 No, I am not a current permanent Buffalo Regional Office VBA employee.


TIME IN GRADE: As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. For the GS-12 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 level. 


2.
Have you held a GS-11 position ( or higher ) 1 year
 I have held a GS-11 position (or higher) for 1 year
 No, I have not held a GS-11 position (or higher) for 1 year


To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience may have been gained in the following positions: Lead Senior Veterans Claims Examiner, Veteran Claim Examiner, Management Analyst or in a position that required you to adjudicate veterans benefits and gain knowledge of complex laws, rules and regulations pertaining to veterans benefit entitlements. Candidates must also have demonstrated in their work experience or training that they possess, or have the potential to develop, the qualities to successfully supervise


3.
Do you possess the required 1 year of specialized experience required for this position
 Yes, I do possess the required 1 year of specialize experience listed in this announcement
 No, I do not possess the required 1 year of specialized experience listed in this announcement.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙