Position Title
MWR Recreational Lodging Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12767212 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2025 to Jul 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the MWR Recreation Lodging Manager position. Failure to respond to all question will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience associated with the administration, management, operation and utilization of recreation lodging facilities and assets?

 Yes
 No


2.
Which statement below best describes your experience with the daily operations of a hotel, RV park or other recreational lodging facility to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices, lodging management procedures and front desk, housekeeping and maintenance operating principles and practices.
 I have five (5) or more years of experience with the daily operations of a hotel, RV park or other recreational lodging facility to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices, lodging management procedures and front desk, housekeeping and maintenance operating principles and practices.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with the daily operations of a hotel, RV park or other recreational lodging facility to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices, lodging management procedures and front desk, housekeeping and maintenance operating principles and practices.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with the daily operations of a hotel, RV park or other recreational lodging facility to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices, lodging management procedures and front desk, housekeeping and maintenance operating principles and practices.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with the daily operations of a hotel, RV park or other recreational lodging facility to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices, lodging management procedures and front desk, housekeeping and maintenance operating principles and practices.
 I have no experience with the daily operations of a hotel, RV park or other recreational lodging facility to include safety, environmental and fire prevention regulations and practices, lodging management procedures and front desk, housekeeping and maintenance operating principles and practices.


3.
Which statement below best describes your knowledge of NAF budgeting and activity level financial management?
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of knowledge of NAF budgeting and activity level financial management.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of NAF budgeting and activity level financial management.
 I have less than one (1) year of NAF budgeting and activity level financial management.
 I have no knowledge of NAF budgeting and activity level financial management.


4.
Which statement below best describes your ability to direct the work of other employees?
 I have three (3) to five (5) years directing the work of other employees.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years directing the work of other employees.
 I have less than one (1) year directing the work of other employees.
 I have no experience directing the work of other employees.


5.
Which statement below best describes your experience with automate property management system(s)?
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with automate property management system(s).
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with automate property management system(s).
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with automate property management system(s).
 I have no experience with automate property management system(s).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙