Position Title
Advanced Practice Nurse/Nurse Practitioner (MH Silver Team) - EDRP Authorized
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12841990-26-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently employed by federal agency other than by the Department of Veterans Affairs?  This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioner), VN-0610 - The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS OR PROVIDE THE NECESSARY INFORMATION MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.
In order to qualify for this position as an Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioner) (APN (NP)), you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements.
Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until the education requirements are met.
Applicants that meet the education requirement but do not possess the required license and/or certification yet may be hired at the entry step Nurse II a Graduate Nurse Technician - Nurse Practitioner on a temporary appointment up to any period not-to-exceed one year and a day while actively pursuing licensure and/or certification.

NOTE: Grandfathering Provision - All persons currently employed in VHA in 0610 series and an APN (NP) assignment that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the standard (1/29/2024) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification.


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION: All Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioners) must possess a post-master's certificate or master's or doctoral degree as a Nurse Practitioner. Must be a graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant:
The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) or
The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE).
NOTE: Foreign Education. Graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing programs, the nurse practitioner degree equivalency must be validated through an Agency recognized degree equivalency evaluation agency, such as the International Consultants of Delaware (ICD). Candidates with equivalent nurse practitioner masters or doctorate level degrees who possess current, full, active, and unrestricted registration and certification will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant appointment.

Do you meet the above requirements?
 Yes, I graduated from a school of professional nursing approved ACEN or CCNE at the time the program was completed.
 Yes, I graduated from a foreign school of professional nursing validated as an equivalent degree by an evaluation agency, as above described.
 No; however, this requirement does not apply to me. I am a current, permanent VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No; however, I am soon pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.
 No. None of the above response options apply to me.


2a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received (or are expecting to receive) your Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioners) education.
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Level of Education (Post-Master's Certificate, Master's or Doctoral degree, etc.)
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date)


3.
LICENSURE/REGISTRATION: Do you possess a current, full, active and unrestricted APN license to practice as an NP in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia.?
 Yes, I possess a current, full, active and unrestricted APN license to practice as an NP.
 No; however, this requirement does not apply to me. I am a current, permanent VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No; however, I am soon pending APN (NP) licensure.
 No. None of the above response options apply to me.


3a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding your APN licensure. If you are not licensed yet, indicate the expected (projected) issuance date.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Initial (or projected) issuance date
Expiration date


4.
BOARD CERTIFICATION: Do you possess full and current basic board certification as a Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) from one of the following:
The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC) OR
The American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB) OR
Other nationally recognized certifying body in the area in which the Nurse Practitioner is academically prepared.
 Yes, I am board certified by ANCC or AANPCB as a Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP).
 No; however, this requirement does not apply to me. I am a current, permanent VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No; however, I am soon pending APN (NP) board certification as a Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP) .
 No. None of the above response options apply to me.


4a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding your active APN (NP) board certifications; otherwise leave blank or enter, "N/A."
Credential type
Issuing organization
Credential number (if applicable)
Initial (or projected) issuance date
Expiration date (if applicable)


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.

Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.

Some helpful tips:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week
Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Current VA Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

Additional Resources:
Obtaining your Transcripts: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ 
How to Build a Resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 
What to Include in my Federal resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙