Position Title
Interdisciplinary General Engineer/Operations Research Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-13005401-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


6.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


8.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


10.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 Yes
 No


12.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1515 - Operations Research


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the following basic education requirements to qualify for the NH-0801 series.

 Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics and I have included my transcripts with my application.
 I have a current registration as a professional engineer by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico and I have included a copy of my registration and transcripts with my application.
 I have evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the written test required for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico and I have attached a copy of my EIT examination certificate to my application.
 I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses specified in the basic requirements. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum as described in choice A and I have included my transcript with my application.
 I have a related bachelor degree (e.g. engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance and I have included proof of this experience via a signed letter by my supervisor verifying the training received and/or duties I performed as a professional engineer and my transcripts with my application.
 My education is not listed above.


2.
I meet the following basic education requirements to qualify for the NH-1515 series.

 Degree: in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 My education is not listed above.


3.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of experience.
 I have one year specialized experience to the next lower broadband or NH-03/GS-13 or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) which includes the following: Assisting organization in management of Aegis ballistic missile defense engineering test programs or similar complex weapon systems; Consulting on Aegis missile defense weapon systems testing, sub-systems, and components; Advising on the integration of Aegis missile defense weapon systems; Reviewing test concepts, policies, and standards of missile defense system flight and ground tests.
 My experience does not meet requirements listed above.


This assessment presents a series of work-related scenarios. For each scenario, you are given five possible courses of action (A-E). While more than one option may seem reasonable, you must select the single best response that you believe would be the most effective and appropriate action to take in that situation.


4.
You are assigned to a project using a novel engineering process not yet standardized within the organization. How do you ensure your work aligns with best practices?
 Wait for official guidance to be published by the engineering standards body before starting any work.
 Research external industry standards and related theories to create a draft internal standard for your project.
 Adhere strictly to existing, adjacent company standards, even if they are not a perfect fit.
 Proceed with the project, documenting your steps carefully so a standard can be developed later.
 Consult with a senior engineer to get their opinion before taking any action, then proceed as they advise.


5.
A critical component in your system design fails during preliminary testing. The component was designed according to established principles. What is your immediate course of action?

 Immediately begin redesigning the component based on a new engineering concept.
 Document the failure and recommend that the component be re-evaluated in the next design phase.
 Order a replacement component from the same supplier and repeat the test, assuming a random defect.
 Check with the procurement team to see if a more robust, alternative component is available on the market.
 Conduct a root cause analysis to determine if the failure was due to a manufacturing defect, a flaw in the original design, or an error in the test procedure itself.


6.
You discover a discrepancy between the engineering drawings and the "as-built" configuration of a sub-system delivered by a contractor. How do you proceed?

 Correct the drawings yourself to match the delivered product to keep the project on schedule.
 Formally return the sub-system to the contractor, citing the discrepancy as a breach of contract.
 Document the discrepancy, conduct an engineering analysis to determine its impact, and then formally engage the contractor to resolve it.
 Ask the lead technician to implement a workaround on the production floor to accommodate the discrepancy.
 Halt all integration work with the sub-system until the contractor provides corrected drawings.


7.
A junior engineer on your team proposes a solution that seems overly complex and expensive. What is your best course of action?

 Ask the engineer to perform a trade study, comparing their solution against simpler alternatives based on cost, risk, and performance.
 Gently tell them their idea is too complex and to focus on simpler, proven solutions.
 Allow them to develop a small-scale proof-of-concept to test their idea's feasibility.
 Ignore the suggestion, assuming it's not viable due to their lack of experience.
 Immediately present their idea to senior management to see if there is appetite for a high-risk solution.


8.
You are asked to review a new system design based on a well-established theory, but you suspect it may not perform well under your project's unique operational conditions. What do you do?

 Trust the established theory and approve the design, assuming the original designers knew what they were doing.
 Build a model or simulation to test the design's performance against the specific operational conditions and use that data to validate or challenge the design.
 Reject the design outright, stating that it is theoretically sound but not a good fit for the project.
 Approve the design but add a note to the record expressing your reservations.
 Discuss your concerns informally with a colleague to see if they agree before taking any formal action.


9.
You are drafting a test plan, and the program manager wants to cut the number of test events in half to save money. What is your best response?

 Insist that every planned test is critical and that no cuts can be made without compromising the program.
 Agree to the cuts, but write a memo stating you are not responsible for any failures due to inadequate testing.
 Do your best to combine the remaining test events to gather as much data as possible within the new constraints.
 Conduct a risk assessment that maps each test event to a specific requirement and present the manager with a clear analysis of which capabilities will be unverified by making the cuts.
 Go to the manager's supervisor to report that they are trying to cut corners on a critical test.


10.
You must define the instrumentation requirements for a test with a tight budget. How do you ensure you have what you need?

 Request the most advanced instrumentation suite available to ensure you can capture any possible data.
 Re-use the exact instrumentation plan from a previous, similar test to save time and effort.
 First, define the "must-have" data required for critical test objectives. Then, create a prioritized list of "nice-to-have" measurements and map instrumentation options to each.
 Ask the instrumentation department what equipment they have available and design your test plan around that list.
 Secure the budget for the "must-have" items first and plan to request additional funds for "nice-to-have" items later.


11.
During a live-fire test, an unexpected system behavior occurs that is not a failure but was not predicted. What is your most effective immediate action?

 Halt the test immediately, as any unpredicted behavior indicates a major problem.
 Assume it is a sensor glitch and disregard the data point in the final analysis.
 Make a note of the behavior in your logbook and continue the test as planned to avoid losing valuable range time.
 If safe to do so, repeat the test point and direct instrumentation to gather specific diagnostic data related to the anomaly to aid in a root cause analysis.
 Immediately form a working group after the test to discuss the theoretical cause of the behavior.


12.
A key piece of test equipment breaks down mid-test. You have a limited window of time at the test facility. What is your best course of action?

 Cancel the remainder of the test and schedule a new test window once the equipment is repaired.
 Immediately begin troubleshooting the equipment with the on-site technicians.
 Re-plan the remainder of the test on the fly, prioritizing test points that do not require the broken equipment, while a dedicated team begins troubleshooting.
 Document the failure and use modeling and simulation to predict the results for the un-run test points.
 Ask the facility manager for a no-cost time extension to make up for the lost time.


13.
You have produced a large volume of conflicting data from a series of evaluations. There is pressure from leadership to deliver a recommendation quickly. What is your most effective first step?

 Request an extension from leadership, explaining that the data is too complex to analyze in the given timeframe.
 Isolate the data that supports the expected outcome and present that as the primary finding to meet the deadline.
 Develop a systematic approach to categorize the data, identify the sources of conflict, and determine which data points are most reliable before drawing conclusions.
 Convene a meeting with the entire team to vote on the most likely conclusion.
 Use your personal judgment and experience to make a "gut-feeling" recommendation, noting the data conflict as a risk.


14.
A major project you are monitoring is about to miss a critical deadline, and several teams are blaming each other. What is your best course of action?

 Send an email to all team leads demanding they resolve their disputes and get the project back on track.
 Report to management that the project is delayed due to infighting between the teams.
 Individually meet with each team lead to hear their perspective on the cause of the delay.
 Organize a working session with all key stakeholders to map out the remaining tasks, identify the true bottlenecks, and re-plan the work based on facts, not blame.
 Create a new, extended project schedule that accommodates the current rate of progress.


15.
An alternative solution to a complex problem is proposed by a junior team member. It seems plausible but would require abandoning the approach your team has been pursuing for months. What is your best course of action?

 Thank the team member but explain that it's too late in the process to change course.
 Immediately halt the current approach and shift all resources to investigating the new solution.
 Dismiss the idea, as the current approach was approved by senior management.
 Charter a small, time-boxed "tiger team" to rapidly assess the feasibility and potential benefits of the new solution without fully halting progress on the current path.
 Ask the junior team member to develop the idea further on their own time so it doesn't distract the team.


16.
You analyze a set of data, and your conclusion is the opposite of what your manager and the entire team expected. What do you do?

 Re-run the analysis until you can find a way to make the data align with the expected outcome.
 Present your conclusion but downplay its significance to avoid creating conflict.
 Before presenting, double-check your data, methodology, and calculations, and perhaps ask a trusted peer to independently review your analysis.
 Immediately email the entire team and your manager with the results, stating that the previous assumptions were wrong.
 Don't present the conclusion, assuming you must have made a mistake.


17.
Management has asked you to lead a major study on a topic outside your area of deep expertise. How do you proceed?

 Decline the assignment, stating that you are not the right person for the job.
 Accept the assignment and use your general project management skills to organize the study, delegating all technical work.
 Accept the assignment, and your first step is to identify and form a team of subject matter experts (SMEs) to support you in planning and conducting the study.
 Quickly try to read as much as you can on the topic and then attempt to plan and conduct the study on your own.
 Ask management to provide a detailed plan for how they want the study to be conducted.


18.
You must write a detailed technical report for a mixed audience of engineers, project managers, and senior leaders. How do you structure the report?

 Write the entire report in deep technical language for the engineers.
 Write a single, long narrative that blends the technical data with project management updates.
 Structure the report with a concise executive summary for leadership, sections on schedule/budget for managers, and detailed technical appendices for engineers.
 Write the report in simple, non-technical language so everyone can understand it.
 Schedule separate oral briefings for each group instead of writing a single report.


19.
You are in a meeting with government officials when one asks a pointed question about a project delay that you were not prepared for. What is your best response?

 Give the best answer you can, even if you have to guess at some of the details.
 State that the question is outside the scope of the current meeting and move on.
 Acknowledge that it is an important question, promise to get a detailed and accurate answer, and provide a specific timeframe in which you will follow up.
 Deflect the question by pointing to a success in another area of the project.
 Turn to your boss or the senior person in the room and let them handle the question.


20.
You are in a heated discussion with government officials who disagree with your team's recommendation. The meeting is becoming unproductive. What is your best course of action?

 Continue to argue your team's position more forcefully to show your confidence.
 End the meeting and state you will only continue once they are willing to agree with your data.
 Suggest a short break, then propose to shift the focus from the competing conclusions to the underlying data and assumptions to re-establish common ground.
 Agree with their position in order to end the conflict and preserve the relationship.
 Ask a senior manager to step in and make a final decision.


21.
You need to develop a test procedure for visiting officials who will be observing a test. What is the most important consideration for the document?

 It should be extremely detailed, including all technical specifications and calibration settings.
 It should focus primarily on the safety protocols and emergency procedures for the test range.
 It should be written clearly and concisely, explaining the purpose of the test, the sequence of major events, and what the officials should expect to see, omitting unnecessary jargon.
 It should include a detailed schedule of the day, including break times and lunch arrangements.
 It should begin with a list of all the officials in attendance and their official titles for protocol.


22.
You need to brief senior leadership on a project failure. What is the best communication strategy?

 Focus the briefing primarily on the external factors that were outside of your team's control.
 Present a detailed timeline of events leading to the failure without offering any conclusions.
 Start the briefing by clearly stating the bottom-line impact, then explain the root cause, the corrective actions already taken, and the plan to prevent recurrence.
 Keep the briefing high-level and vague to avoid alarming leadership, promising a written report later.
 Recommend a full-scale investigation to be led by an outside party to ensure impartiality.


23.
The final report for a major Test & Evaluation project is due. What is the most critical element to get right?

 Ensuring the report is formatted perfectly according to the official style guide, with no errors.
 Providing a detailed, day-by-day narrative of everything that happened during the test.
 Making sure that the conclusions and recommendations are clear, unambiguous, and directly supported by the data and analysis presented in the report.
 Including testimonials from team members about the success of the project.
 Compiling all of the raw data from the test into a series of large, un-annotated tables and graphs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙