Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
26-OM-IMP-12898344-RDR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you currently work at ATF?
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent ATF employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility login to HR Connect to review your latest SF-50. Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
From the statements below, select the choice that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualifications for this position. (Must submit transcripts/certificates to verify eligibility)
 Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
 Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) you have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that you have demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, your education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not meet the basic requirements for this position as described in A or B above.


2.
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-13) in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower (GS-13) grade level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as meeting ALL of the following: Supervising or leading a staff in accounting functions; AND Directing and reviewing day to day accounting operations, including accounts receivable reconciliations, deposits, disbursements, and CARS (Central Accounting Reporting System) transaction reporting; AND Ensuring accuracy and compliance with federal regulations, internal controls, agency guidance, and audit requirements; AND Responding to internal and external audit findings and implementing corrective actions to address deficiencies.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙