Position Title
Secretary (Office Automation)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13051347K-TSN-0318-7 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (GA0010) 2385 Chamblee Tucker Road, Chamblee, GA
 B. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce Street, Dallas Center, IA
 C. (PA0809) 2970 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA
 D. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA
 E. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


13.
This position requires a qualified typist with a minimum typing speed of 40 words per minute (based on a five minute sample with three or fewer errors).

From the following responses select the one that is true about your level of proficiency.
 Yes, I can accurately type at least 40 words per minute (based on a 5 minute sample with three or fewer errors).
 I have a certificate of proficiency from an authorized school or other organization authorized to issue certificates by the Office of Personnel Management dated within the last three years.
 No, I cannot accurately type at least 40 words per minute (based on a five minute sample with three or fewer errors).


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-07:
You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Screening and answering telephone calls and determining which require personal attention.
Establishing, organizing, and maintaining files of correspondence, manuals, and other related information.
Reviewing correspondence and reports for proper format, grammar, punctuation, and mathematical correctness.
Scheduling and shifting appointments based on commitments.
Gathering and assembling necessary supporting documentation for reports.
Providing advice, assistance and training to clerical support positions.
Scheduling engagements and background material and preparing notes regarding topics to be discussed.
TYPING PROFICIENCY: Applicants must be a qualified typist with a minimum typing speed of 40 words per minute (based on a 5-minute sample with three or fewer errors). Applicants may meet these requirements by passing the appropriate performance test, presenting a certificate of proficiency from a school or other organization authorized to issue such certificates by the Office of Personnel Management local office, or by self-certifying their proficiency. Performance test results and certificates of proficiency are acceptable for three years. We may verify proficiency skills of self-certified applicants by administering the appropriate performance test.


1.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-07:
I have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: screening and answering telephone calls and determining which require personal attention; Establishing, organizing, and maintaining files of correspondence, manuals, and other related information; Reviewing correspondence and reports for proper format, grammar, punctuation, and mathematical correctness; Scheduling and shifting appointments based on commitments; Gathering and assembling necessary supporting documentation for reports; Providing advice, assistance and training to clerical support positions; Scheduling engagements and background material and preparing notes regarding topics to be discussed.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?

 I do have one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I do not have one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.

TYPING PROFICIENCY: Applicants must be a qualified typist with a minimum typing speed of 40 words per minute (based on a 5-minute sample with three or fewer errors). Applicants may meet these requirements by passing the appropriate performance test, presenting a certificate of proficiency from a school or other organization authorized to issue such certificates by the Office of Personnel Management local office, or by self-certifying their proficiency. Performance test results and certificates of proficiency are acceptable for three years. We may verify proficiency skills of self-certified applicants by administering the appropriate performance test.

Please select the response that is true regarding your typing proficiency.

 I self-certify that I can type a minimum of 40 words per minute and/or have a certificate of proficiency from an authorized school or other organization authorized to issue certificates by the Office of Personnel Management dated within the last three years (based on a 5-minute sample with three or fewer errors).
 None of the above.


Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.       
The next set of questions draws primarily on your experiences in working with and relating to others in a work setting. In each of the questions in this section, you are asked to indicate how you would be most likely to respond in a given situation. No special training or experience is required to answer these questions. Identify from the response options the one that best represents how you would handle the situation. Select the response that is closest to how you would be most likely to actually handle the situation, not the response that you think others might select or the response that you think is expected.  


3.
A new employee just reported to your unit within the last week. One of his duties is to access taxpayer records using one of the IRS computer systems. He has yet to receive his login ID and password. He asks you if he can use your logon ID and password so he can start his duties right away. What would you do?
 Give him your login ID and password knowing that he needs to get his work done.
 Tell him to ask another co-worker/mentor.
 Tell him to talk to his manager.
 Tell him that you cannot do that, but you will be happy to assist him in requesting his login ID and password.


4.
You are entering time into the time and attendance database when an employee asks you to include two hours of overtime for the previous night and indicates that they will get their timesheet signed by their supervisor at a later time. You would:
 Record the two hours overtime and have the employee initial her timesheet. Tell the employee to provide a time stamp which indicates the hours worked.
 Tell the employee that they need to discuss the issue with their supervisor to have the timesheet adjusted accordingly.
 Tell the employee that until it is documented, you are unable to enter the overtime.
 Take the information from the employee and discuss it with either your supervisor or her supervisor.


5.
One of your primary responsibilities as a secretary is to ensure that time worked by employees is input by close of business every other Friday. If you fail to complete this task accurately and timely some of your employees will not get paid correctly. You have 15 employees in your group and one of the employees is chronically late in getting his timecard to you each pay period. What would you do?
 Input the employee's time with what you believe to be correct without his timecard and make corrections later when he submits his timecard to you.
 Inform the employee that next time he is late; you will not input his time.
 Explain the situation to your supervisor and ask her to speak to the employee.
 Speak with the employee and explain to him why he needs to get their timecard to you in a timely manner.


6.
You will be responsible for answering the phone for your work unit, taking messages, routing calls to the appropriate staff and determining the nature of the call. There are three phone calls at the same time for your supervisor, who has explicitly state that they are not to be interrupted. One caller is the Director (your supervisor's boss), one caller is your supervisor's spouse and one call is the auto mechanic. What would you do?
 Ask all three callers to call back because your supervisor is currently busy.
 Explain that your supervisor is currently busy and take message from the three callers.
 Ask each caller for the nature of the call. If none of the calls are an emergency, resolve what you can and inform them that you will have your supervisor return each call when he is available.
 Interrupt your boss with the Director's call.


7.
You were sent to pick up an important package from another office by your supervisor. Upon arriving at the designated office, you are told that the package is not ready to be picked up. What would you do?
 Find out when the package will be ready for pick up and return at that time.
 Return to your office and inform your supervisor that the package was not ready.
 Ask to speak to the manager of the designated office where you are picking up the package.
 Call back to your office and talk with your supervisor about the situation.
 None of the above


8.
You have prepared a presentation for secretaries explaining office procedures. An hour before the presentation you learn that in addition to the secretaries there will also be office clerks and supervisors attending. What will you do?
 Give the same presentation as you originally planned without acknowledging the change.
 Go to your supervisor and tell her that you would like to postpone the presentation in order to be more prepared.
 Use the time before your presentation to do some fast editing so the presentation will be beneficial to everyone in attendance.
 Explain to the audience that you weren't aware of the change in the audience. Apologize then give the presentation as prepared.


9.
You received a request from a Congressional aide asking for a meeting with your supervisor. His calendar is full and the request for a meeting is unable to be accommodated. What would you do?
 Explain that the calendar is booked and that they will have to call back when she has another date.
 Explain that the calendar is booked and ask if someone else other than your supervisor would be able to attend the meeting.
 Refer the aide to your supervisor.
 Ask your supervisor if he would like to make time on the calendar for the meeting.


10.
An employee needs to get his parking pass renewed. The passes have arrived in your office but your office does not renew parking passes. What would you do?
 Refer the employee to parking pass renewal handbook.
 Tell the employee parking pass renewal is not a function that your office performs and refer them to the personnel office.
 Locate the parking pass renewal contact person and refer the employee to that person.
 Tell the employee that all administrative questions should be directed to an immediate supervisor.


11.
It is almost time for you to leave for the day when an upset taxpayer enters the office. The taxpayer asks for someone who is not in the office. What would you do?
 Tell the taxpayer to come back tomorrow.
 Take a message and tell the taxpayer to call tomorrow. Apologize to the taxpayer.
 Look for someone else in the office to help the taxpayer.
 Ask the taxpayer if there might be something you can do. Listen carefully, to find out the problem and if possible provide the answer.


12.
You are responsible for written correspondence in response to a taxpayer inquiry. You notice an error in the completed product that is ready to be sent out to the taxpayer. What would you do?
 Contact the party or parties involved in the creation of said correspondence to clarify the situation.
 Let the correspondence go forward without comment or correction.
 Contact your manager for directions.
 Take it upon yourself to make the necessary corrections.
 None of the above


13.
It's Thursday afternoon and you are entering time and attendance data for your unit. It must be completed by Friday morning at 9:00 a.m. and submitted to your supervisor for approval. There is one employee who says he's too busy to give you his timesheet. What do you do?
 You tell him if you don't receive his timesheet by the end of the day, he won't get paid.
 You enter in his time from last week and you give him until 8:00 a.m. Friday morning to receive his timesheet.
 You tell him that you must have it by COB today or you will refer the situation to his manager.
 You tell him that you will make an exception and he can give it to you by 9:00 a.m. the next day.


14.
You are assigned to an office where there are ten groups and six of them have been assigned secretaries. That leaves four groups without secretaries. You notice that the clerical tasks in the four other groups are not getting done or are being completed by the supervisors of the groups. What would you do?
 Nothing, because it is none of your business and you have enough work to do.
 Tell your supervisor that you have a friend they can hire.
 Meet with the other secretaries in the office and suggest sharing the workload.
 Tell your supervisor that you would be willing to take over some of the tasks in the other groups.


15.
A confidential letter is received in the office on Friday at 11:30 a.m. for your supervisor. The envelope indicates that an immediate response is required by close of business that day. Your supervisor left the office at 11:00 a.m. and will not return until the following Tuesday. What would you do?
 Put the envelope in your supervisor's in-basket with an expedite note attached to it for Tuesday.
 Open the envelope to ascertain if it is something that you can respond to for your supervisor.
 Call the sender to let her know that your supervisor has left for the day and will not return until Tuesday.
 Give the envelope to the person who has been authorized to act on behalf of your supervisor.


16.
You have established a suspense file for an action document for your supervisor. The response is due by close of business tomorrow. As you are leaving for your scheduled lunch break, you conduct a follow-up check with your supervisor regarding the response status, and he/she has no recollection of the document in question. What would you do?

 Remind the supervisor of the document in question by giving him the document title and the date and time you gave it to him.
 Pull your copy and give it to the supervisor so he can respond in a timely fashion.
 Pull your copy and make yourself available to assist in the research necessary for the supervisor to respond timely.
 Inform your supervisor that after you return from your scheduled lunch break, you will assist him to find the original document so he can respond by the deadline.


17.
You are responsible for a weekly report on the productivity of the group. The agents in the group are to provide you with the technical contents for the report; you compile the data and produce the final report. This week two of the agents fail to provide you with the required data. What would you do?
 Confront the agents whose data is missing demanding the information then update the manager on what has occurred.
 Contact the manager and inform him/her of the situation.
 Create the weekly report without all the data.
 Do nothing and wait for next week's data.
 None of the above


18.
Your supervisor is on vacation. A clerk from another section comes in and requests a personnel file on another employee from your supervisor's file cabinet. What will you do?
 Locate the file and give it to the clerk.
 Explain that you cannot give out any personnel files until your supervisor returns.
 Call your supervisor's boss to ask permission to relinquish the file.
 Instruct the clerk to have her supervisor prepare a formal request for the file.


19.
One of the duties is to open incoming mail, review the contents and give to the addressee. When reviewing the contents you realize there are several requests for information that you can handle. What would you do?
 Give the mail to the addressees.
 Prepare responses to the request and send them out.
 Give the mail to the addressee with notes attached stating your ability to assist with the request.
 After researching the request you prepare a response. When you have completed the response ask your supervisor to review your response.
 none of the above


20.
Which software applications do you have experience with?
 A. Spreadsheets (e.g. Excel).
 B. Word processing program (e.g. Word).
 C. Presentation Software (e.g. PowerPoint).
 D. Database management system (e.g. Access).
 E. None of the above.


21.
Select the description below that best describes your experience.
 I can open and edit and save a Word document.
 I can create, edit, and print standardized products.
 I can do A and B above, plus insert columns and tables into the document.
 None of the above.


22.
Select the description below that best describes your experience.
 I can open and edit spreadsheets.
 I can create, edit, and print spreadsheets.
 I can do A and B above, plus insert borders, shading, and formulas into the spreadsheet.
 None of the above.


23.
You have been asked to do a review of the written correspondence procedures and make any needed updates to the procedures. What would you do?
 Find any previous correspondence procedures and submit them as your work.
 Make all changes by yourself and send them out to the staff.
 Pull together a team of other secretaries to review and come up with appropriate changes.
 Request input on proposed changes from managerial staff.


24.
You are responsible for tracking the travel budget. The current process is being done manually on paper. You know it would be easier to maintain if it was automated but you do not have computer training. What would you do?
 Explain to your manager that you cannot perform this duty without computer training.
 Continue to track the travel budget manually.
 Teach yourself how to use the computer and present the new product to your supervisor.
 Prepare the travel budget manually and request computer training.


25.
You are responsible for training new secretaries. You have recently attended training on a new procedure that you are required to share with these secretaries. The training was informative but there are slides and a video that does not include realistic examples. You are concerned that the training will not be effective and could be very confusing for a new secretary. What would you do?
 Conduct the training as directed showing the slides and video you were given.
 Speak with the instructors to see if there is any other training material.
 Revise the training material so that it will be useful to the new secretaries.


26.
Please select the answer that best describes your reading skills.
 Reads, understands and follows written instructions to complete work assignments.
 Reads technical information and determines how to apply its concept to the job.
 Reads technical information (for example, manuals, books or reports) and interprets the information for others.
 None of the above


27.
Please select the priority program for which you are eligible for consideration.
 IRS Reassignment Preference Program (RPP)
 IRS Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)
 Treasury Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) within the commuting area
 Other IRS Preference Program
 I am not eligible for any priority program


28.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙