Position Title
Mobile Equipment Servicer (MVO)
Agency
Arlington National Cemetery
Announcement Number
DAHT-26-13008537-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Mobile Equipment Servicer (MVO) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Mobile Equipment Servicer (MVO) WG-5806-06 position.
 I am able to perform the most complex services on vehicles such as reading and following blueprints and technical publications to determine proper repair procedures, changing oil and filters on hydraulic systems, determining the proper lubricant or solvent mixtures to use.
 I am able to perform the full range of service duties such as replacing accessories such as rear-view mirrors, rotating, replacing, and repairing tube and tubeless tires with a plugger or a hot or cold patch, draining and changing lubricants in crank cases.
 I am able to perform common mechanical tasks such as removing and installing wiper blades, light bulbs, checking air pressure in tires and inflating to correct pressure; to charge batteries and add distilled water or battery acid as necessary.
 I am able to perform simple mechanical tasks such as fixing flat tires.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above abilities to perform technical practices of a Mobile Equipment Servicer (MVO)


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙