Position Title
Fish Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
FWS-DE-13013356-26-BLO Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
U.S. Citizens

Are you a U.S. citizen or national?


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Ludington Biological Station, Ludington, MI
 B. Marquette Biological Station, Marquette, MI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Read all response options carefully before making your selection. If you choose more than one response or leave a question blank, you will be rated as ineligible. Your application materials must support the answers you claim. If your documentation does not support your claims, you may be found not qualified or receive a lower score. No assumptions will be made about your experience. Read the Qualifications section for requirements. Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. Read the Required Documents and the How You Will Be Evaluated sections for requirements. If you are using education to qualify, read the Education section for requirements.


Basic Education Requirements for Fish Biologist, GS-0482-07/09 (FPL 11)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best indicates how your education meets the basic requirements for a Fish Biologist, GS-0482-07/09 (FPL 11) position.
 I possess a Bachelor's or higher degree with a major in biological science that includes: At least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology AND at least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences in such subjects as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, entomology, parasitology, ecology, cellular biology, genetics, or research in these fields.
 I possess a combination of education and experience of courses equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences, as described in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education as described above.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Fish Biologist, GS-0482-07


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your specialized experience meets the qualification requirements for a Fish Biologist, GS-0482-07 position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in Federal Service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) which is in or related to the position to be filled and which provided the necessary knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies to successfully perform the duties of Fish Biologist. Specialized Experience: Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Examples of qualifying specialized experience for the GS-7 level includes activities such as: • Assist senior staff with sea lamprey control and assessment tasks following established protocols. • Adjust field schedules, locate sampling sites, and support efficient field operations under variable conditions. • Participate in lampricide treatments, bioassays, water sampling, stream flow measurements, and biological specimen collection. • Operate, maintain, repair, and occasionally fabricate components for specialized fisheries equipment, watercraft, and field gear. • Collect and record biological, physical, environmental, and geographic data and prepare basic field summaries. • Maintain inventory, assist with equipment procurement, and follow safety and hazardous materials procedures. • Coordinate access and field activities with landowners and partner agencies.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience as described above, but I have successfully completed at least one year of graduate-level education in biological science or related field of study. You must include transcripts.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor’s degree and I meet the criteria for Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A) as evidenced by one of the three following methods: • I am in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. OR • I have a GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (“B” or better), shown on my submitted transcript, computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum, or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in my major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. OR • I am a member of one of the national scholastic honor societies recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. You must include transcripts.
 I have successfully completed a combination of education and experience described above. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. You must include transcripts.
 I do not have the Specialized Experience, Graduate Education, Superior Academic Achievement, or the combination that is described above.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Fish Biologist, GS-0482-09


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your specialized experience meets the qualification requirements for a Fish Biologist, GS-0482-09 position.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in Federal Service (obtained either in the private or public sectors) which is in or related to the position to be filled and which provided the necessary knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies to successfully perform the duties of Fish Biologist. Specialized Experience: Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Examples of qualifying specialized experience for the GS-9 level includes activities such as: • Conduct sea lamprey control and assessment activities and collect biological and environmental data using established methods. • Perform water chemistry measurements, bioassays, and sampling to support treatment planning and evaluation. • Operate and maintain specialized fisheries equipment, electrofishing gear, lampricide systems, and watercraft. • Contribute to annual work planning by identifying field needs, tools, and sampling locations. • Prepare data summaries, draft reports, and technical graphics for program documentation. • Coordinate with federal, state, tribal, provincial, and international partners to complete assigned tasks. • Provide guidance to small field teams and ensure adherence to protocols, safety, and equipment accountability requirements.
 I have successfully completed at least two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in biological science or related field of study. You must include transcripts.
 I have successfully completed a combination of education and experience described above. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. You must include transcripts.
 I do not have the education or specialized experience that is described above.


Vehicle Operation


4.
This position requires a valid state driver's license.

 I possess a valid state driver’s license.
 I do not possess a valid state driver’s license but will be able to obtain one before I enter on duty.
 I do not have a valid state driver’s license, nor will I be able to obtain one before I enter on duty.


Must meet medical standards to assure the ability to perform field work safely.


5.
This position requires passing a pre-employment medical examination, ongoing medical clearance, and successful completion of a physical capability test that includes lifting, carrying, and emptying 50-pound containers of lampricide (TFM). It also requires participation in medical surveillance testing before and after field seasons. Are you able to meet these requirements and safely perform all associated duties?
 Yes, I certify that I can meet all of these medical and physical requirements, including completing the physical capability test, participating in medical surveillance, and safely performing field duties that involve lifting and carrying 50-pound lampricide containers.
 No, I cannot meet one or more of these medical or physical requirements and/or cannot safely perform the duties described above.


Verification Statement


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙