Position Title
Embedded Integrated Prevention Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12857118 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Jan 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and education.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in adult education, behavioral science, social science, or in a related behavioral science field AND three years of specialized experience related to the work of the position.
 I have a combination of education (in adult education, behavioral science, social science, or in a related behavioral science field) and specialized experience related to the work of the position.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have serving as a non-clinical trainer/educator responsible for collaborating with the Deployed Resiliency Counselor and command leadership in assessing the training need and ensuring the delivery of a wide variety of educational programs and services?
 I have four or more years of experience as described above providing service to Active-Duty members and/or their dependents.
 I have less than four years of experience as described above providing service to Active-Duty members and/or their dependents.
 I have four or more years of experience as described above providing service to the civilian sector.
 I have less than four years of experience as described above providing service to the civilian sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with providing education services/programs on topics related to the Counseling, Advocacy, and Prevention (CAP), SAPR, Work and Family Life (WFL), and Navy Gold Star programs?
 I have four or more years of experience as described above providing service to Active-Duty members and/or their dependents.
 I have less than four years of experience as described above providing service to Active-Duty members and/or their dependents.
 I have four or more years of experience as described above providing service to the civilian sector.
 I have less than four years of experience as described above providing service to the civilian sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have with conducting and evaluating needs assessments, both formal and informal, and developing programming toward identified customer needs?
 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have with coordinating with the Deployed Resiliency Counselor in planning scheduled workshops, programs, command briefs and general military trainings (GMTs) presented on the ship and at other locations?
 I have 5+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙