Position Title
Operations Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12973399 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


1.
What best describes your leadership experience of club, restaurant, business operations, or equivalent area?
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


2.
Do you have a minimum of one year experience providing customer service to a diverse group of people, or the equivalent?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires availability to work nights, weekends, and holidays. All American provides breakfast, lunch and dinner 7-days a week, Monday - Sunday. The restaurant opens as early as 6:00 am and closes 7:30 pm. Please indicate your availability to work.
 Available all hours and each day without restrictions
 Only available on weekdays
 Only available on weekends
 Not available to work evenings
 Not available to work mornings


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Select the option that best describes your experience using a point-of-sale system and other software programs.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙