Position Title
HR Assistant (Recruitment)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12789372 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 22, 2025 to Aug 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Human Resources Assistant - Recruitment position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of administrative/clerical work experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years of experience do you have in recruitment and staffing in a Human Resources Office?
 I have more than 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 year or more of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


3.
What best describes your experience with the Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) Human Resources?
 I have more than 2 years of experience working with NAF Human Resources.
 I have more than 2 years of experience working with Appropriated Funds (APF) Human Resources.
 I have 1-3 years of experience working with NAF Human Resources.
 I have 1-3 years’ experience working with APF or private sector Human Resources procedures.
 I have less than 1 year experience with any type of Human Resources procedures.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have using one or more Human Resources Information System, Office Suite and other related software and peripherals to initiate, enter, review, correct and submit data and retrieve recurring reports?
 I have 2+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1-year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙