Position Title
Medical Reimbursement Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12927310-26-AH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 03, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Medical Reimbursement Technician position with the Federal government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT: The following are minimum requirements for appointment as a Medical Reimbursement Technician in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), which all applicants must met. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
GS-05: EXPERIENCE - Do you possess one (1) year of specialized experience one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (i.e., GS-04). Qualifying examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: following instructions about timeliness, objectives, and relative priorities for doing administrative work; communicating with other staff as necessary to discuss administrative concerns; and reviewing and determining the appropriateness of administrative data. (CLEAR DETAILS OF EXPERIENCE REQUIRED: Your resume must show complete information for each job entry, such as beginning and ending dates of employment, duties performed, and/or total hours worked per week.)
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-05: EDUCATION - Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. Do you possess four (4) years of successfully completed education above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite? This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. NOTE: One year of full-time undergraduate study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business or technical school. (UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED: If you do not submit your transcript, your application may not be reviewed.)

 Yes
 No


3.
GS-05: COMBINATION OF EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION - Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. Do you possess equivalent combinations of experience and education as described in question 1 and 2 to meet the total requirements for this position? For GS-5 level positions, only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. (UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT AND/OR CLEAR DETAILS OF EXPERIENCE REQUIRED: If you do not submit the required document, your application will not be reviewed.

 Yes
 No


4.
GS-06: EXPERIENCE - EXPERIENCE - Do you possess one (1) year of specialized experience one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (i.e., GS-04). Qualifying examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: following instructions about timeliness, objectives, and relative priorities for doing administrative work; communicating with other staff as necessary to discuss administrative concerns; reviewing and determining the appropriateness of administrative data; validating claims for billing purposes; ensuring eligibility and referring questionable coding for review; and interpreting insurance policies and requirements for billing. (CLEAR DETAILS OF EXPERIENCE REQUIRED: Your resume must show complete information for each job entry, such as beginning and ending dates of employment, duties performed, and/or total hours worked per week.)
 Yes
 No


VETERAN'S PREFERENCE DOCUMENTATION REMINDER - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Self-Management competency (Sets well-defined and realistic personal goals; displays a high level of initiative, effort, and commitment towards completing assignments in a timely manner; works with minimal supervision; is motivated to achieve; demonstrates responsible behavior.).


1.
Task: Validates claims for billing purposes ensuring eligibility and referring questionable coding for review.
When validating a high-dollar claim, you identify a procedure code that is commonly rejected by the primary payer. The most appropriate self-managed action is to:

 Send the claim as-is, but make a mental note to check the payer website later that week for updates.
 Wait for the claim to be denied, as the denial process will automatically prompt a review.
 Change the code to a similar but less descriptive code that is known to pay without question.
 Immediately flag the claim, investigate the payer's most recent coverage policy for that procedure, and refer the specific questionable code or documentation to a certified coder or supervisor before submission.


2.
Task: Follows instructions about timeliness, objectives and relative priorities for doing work.
You receive an urgent memo stating that all claims for Payer X must be submitted within the next 48 hours to meet a critical timely filing deadline. You should prioritize this instruction by:

 Sending an email to the supervisor asking for clarification on which specific claims are most important, thereby delaying the start of the task.
 Immediately halting non-critical, routine tasks and reorganizing the daily batch queue to ensure all Payer X claims are prepared and submitted within the 48-hour window, logging the shift in priority.
 Ignoring the memo because it disrupts the existing workflow and only focusing on the oldest claims first, regardless of the deadline.
 Completing the original planned work for the day, and then working overtime to get the Payer X claims done, even if it risks the deadline.


3.
Task: Exhibits flexibility in adapting to changing demands within specific timelines.
Due to an unexpected software outage, you must temporarily switch from electronic batch submission to manual paper claim generation for several hours. To adapt and maintain timelines, you should:

 Simply wait for the system to come back online, only checking the system status every 15 minutes.
 Blame the IT department for the disruption and spend time logging a formal complaint about the outdated system.
 Decide that since electronic claims cannot be filed, no claims should be processed for the rest of the day.
 Identify the highest-priority, high-dollar claims ready for submission, and implement a streamlined paper-filing workflow with a clear log for tracking, ensuring a smooth transition back to electronic processing later.


The following statements pertain to the Manages and Organizes Information competency (Identifies a need; gathers, organizes, and maintains information; determines its importance and accuracy; and communicates it by a variety of methods.).


4.
Task: Submits claims to health Insurance Carriers.
Before submitting a batch of claims electronically, you must ensure the data is organized correctly. The most critical data validation step immediately prior to electronic submission is confirming that:

 The claim file format (e.g., X12 837) adheres to the payer-specific transmission standards and that all required fields (e.g., NPI, provider ID, subscriber information) are populated accurately and completely.
 The total dollar amount of the claims in the batch matches the total dollar amount submitted last week.
 Every single medical record used to justify the billing has been physically signed by the patient.
 You have printed a physical manifest of all claims in the batch, even if the file is being transmitted electronically.


5.
Task: Accepts and completes work provided by a standardized control system such as batched work, caseload level or other defined structure.
You receive a new batch of 150 claims from the internal control system. To manage this work effectively and maintain accountability, you should first:

 Begin processing the easiest claims first, ignoring the internal log to boost immediate completion numbers.
 Log the date and time the batch was received, reconcile the batch manifest against the system count, and confirm the source/type of claims to ensure they meet quality and processing standards before work begins.
 Immediately distribute 50 claims to a coworker to split the workload.
 Discard the standardized control list, as it limits the flexibility of your workflow.


6.
Task: Uses a wide range of office software applications.
You are required to analyze a sudden increase in claim denials from a specific payer. Which combination of software usage demonstrates the most effective data management practice for this analysis?

 Relying solely on a non-work personal cell phone application to calculate the denial rate percentages.
 Utilizing the Billing System to extract raw denial data, exporting it to a Spreadsheet program (e.g., Excel) for filtering and pivot table analysis, and using the Internal Database to verify patient eligibility at the time of service.
 Creating a new text document to manually type out a list of denied patient names and chart numbers.
 Running a single pre-built report in the Billing System and sending the raw printout to the supervisor without further analysis.


The following statements pertain to the Technical Competence competency (Knowledge of how to perform one's job. Refers to specialized knowledge that is acquired through formal training or extensive on-the-job experience.).


7.
Task: Responsible for Medicare reimbursable billing activities.
Which statement represents the most critical, unique technical responsibility when handling Medicare reimbursable claims?

 Using a specific format to manually circle the diagnostic codes on the CMS-1500 form to indicate Medicare billing.
 Requiring all claims be submitted using the older ICD-9-CM codes instead of ICD-10-CM.
 Ensuring timely filing is strictly adhered to (within 12 months from the date of service) and verifying that the correct Acceptable Billing Number (ABN) or equivalent waiver is on file for non-covered services.
 Treating Medicare claims exactly the same as all other commercial insurance claims, with no differentiation in compliance standards.


8.
Task: Understands varied insurance contracts.
While processing a claim, you confirm the associated insurance contract has a clause stating that "Service X requires prior authorization or reimbursement is reduced by 50%." If the claim lacks prior authorization, the most technically competent action is to:

 Send the claim for the full amount, assuming the contract clause will be ignored by the payer.
 Ask the patient to personally call the insurance company to secure the necessary authorization.
 Automatically reduce the billed charge by 50% and submit the claim without questioning the lack of authorization.
 Hold the claim, notify the service provider or authorization department, and initiate the late authorization or appeal process immediately, documenting the contract clause that prohibits full reimbursement.


9.
Task: Applies regulations, and handbooks governing insurance billing, the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act of 1974, HIPPA, and regulations governing release of information procedures.
A third-party auditor requests a copy of a patient's claims history, including diagnostic codes. To comply with this request while adhering to HIPAA and Privacy Act regulations, you must first:

 Censor the diagnostic codes on the claim history but release the patient's full Social Security Number and address.
 Verify the auditor's identity and authority, ensure the request is accompanied by a valid, current Authorization for Release of Information signed by the patient, and only release the minimum necessary information required for the stated purpose.
 Immediately release all requested information to the auditor, since they represent a governmental function.
 Tell the auditor that all billing information is protected and refuse to cooperate under any circumstance.


The following statements pertain to the Decision Making competency (Specifies goals and obstacles to achieving those goals, generates alternatives, considers risks, and evaluates and chooses the best alternative in order to make a determination, draw conclusions or solve a problem.).


10.
Task: Interprets insurance policies and requirements for billing.
A claim is denied with the reason code, "Service not medically necessary per policy criteria." You interpret this and decides the most appropriate next step is to:

 Transfer the full balance of the denied claim to the patient's responsibility without any further review or action.
 Re-submit the exact same claim multiple times until it is automatically paid.
 Review the patient's medical documentation against the specific policy criteria cited in the denial, determine if the documentation supports an appeal, and initiate the formal internal appeals process with supporting documentation.
 Call the insurance company and argue with a customer service agent until they reverse the denial.


11.
Task: Process billings using ICD-9-MC/ICD-10-MC, CPT/4, and HCPCS codes timely.
When you encounter a service coded using the old ICD-9-CM system, the correct decision-making process for timely billing requires you to:

 Wait until the end of the month to batch the claim with all other coding error claims.
 Replace the ICD-9-CM code with a random ICD-10-CM code of similar length.
 Submit the claim immediately with the ICD-9-CM code, hoping the payer's system will automatically convert it.
 Refer the claim back to the coder or provider for conversion to the required ICD-10-CM format and ensure the conversion is completed immediately to meet the payer's timely filing deadline.


12.
Task: Review and determine the appropriateness of administrative data.
You receive a claim with two distinct procedure codes but only one corresponding note in the patient's electronic health record (EHR) that supports the first procedure. Applying sound judgment, you should:

 Assume the second procedure was performed and bill for both codes to avoid delaying the claim submission.
 Use the second procedure code, which pays a higher reimbursement rate, even without documentation.
 Place the claim in a temporary hold status, document the discrepancy, and contact the clinical provider or coding department to request clarification or additional supporting documentation for the second procedure code.
 Remove the first, supported procedure code because it is easier to bill only one code.


The following statements pertain to the Customer Service competency (Works and communicates with clients and customers (e.g., any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit provides, including individuals who work in your agency or in other agencies or organizations outside the Government) to satisfy their expectations. Committed to quality services.).


13.
Task: Handles conflict and problems in dealing with customers constructively and appropriately.
A patient calls demanding to know why they received a bill for a service they believe should have been fully covered. The patient is clearly angry and uses aggressive language. The most appropriate customer service response is to:

 Transfer the patient immediately to the billing supervisor without attempting to address the issue.
 Remain calm, acknowledge the patient’s frustration, apologize for the confusing billing process, and immediately review the Explanation of Benefits (EOB) to constructively explain the patient's policy and financial responsibility.
 Tell the patient their aggressive tone is inappropriate and refuse to continue the conversation until they calm down.
 Agree with the patient that the billing department made a mistake, regardless of the actual facts of the claim.


14.
Task: Communicates with other staff as necessary to discuss administrative concerns.
When communicating with a clinical team member about a lack of medical necessity documentation needed for an appeal, you should prioritize providing the clinical staff with:

 The specific denial code, the exact policy criteria cited by the payer, the date of service, and clear instructions on what type of supporting note is required to fix the discrepancy.
 A vague warning that if the documentation is not fixed, the clinical team member will be personally charged for the service.
 A copy of the full Explanation of Benefits (EOB) without highlighting the specific problem.
 A brief email saying only, "Claim 1234 was denied, please fix."


15.
Task: Composes correspondence on a situational basis.
You needs to draft a letter to a patient explaining a remaining debt balance after a claim has been adjudicated. The correspondence should primarily focus on:

 Using clear, professional language to summarize the original service, citing the insurance determination (deductible, co-pay, or non-covered status), and stating the precise next steps the patient must take to resolve the debt.
 Only stating the total amount due without explaining why the amount is owed or how the insurance carrier calculated the patient's responsibility.
 Using all capital letters to ensure the patient understands the severity of the debt.
 Including a lengthy, jargon-filled explanation of the X12 837 transaction standards used for electronic submission.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙